GOOD
EVENING EVERYONE AND WELCOME TO
THE JANUARY 21ST MEETING OF THE
ANN ARBOR CITY COUNCIL.
IF YOU'RE ABLE PLEASE RISE AND
JOIN US FOR A MOMENT OF SILENCE
FOLLOWED BY THE PLEDGE
OF ALLEGIANCE
.
>> I PLEDGE ALLEGIANCE TO THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND TO
THE REPUBLIC FOR WHICH IT
STANDS ONE NATION UNDER GOD,
INDIVISIBLE WITH LIBERTY AND
JUSTICE FOR ALL BUT OUR CLERK
PLEASE CALL THE ROLE OF COUNSEL
HOUSE MEMBER DISH HERE THE
YOURSELF HERE CUSTOMER WANTS TO
HERE TO.
HERE COMES MY DENHA HERE COMES
AT ONE APSA MAYOR TAYLOR HERE
COMES FOR EITHER HERE OR
ELSEWHERE.
>> HERE COMES OUR BRICKS HERE
COMES OVER HERE WE HAVE A HIM
MAY HAVE A MOTION PLEASE TO
APPROVE THE JUNDAH MOVE BY
COUNCILMAN JOSH SECOND BY
COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON
DISCUSSION OF THE AGENDA ON
FAVOR PROPOSED THE AGENDA IS
APPROVED THEIR COMMUNICATIONS
TODAY FROM OUR CITY
ADMINISTRATOR KNOW MAYOR, WE
HAVE AN INTRODUCTION TODAY FROM
THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR OF THE
MISS THOMPSON.
>> MISS THOMPSON, YOU HAVE THE
THANK YOU KIND OF BRING UP MY
UP THERE WE GO.
GREAT.
WELL, IT'S NICE TO BE HERE.
HAPPY NEW YEAR, EVERYBODY.
>> IT'S GREAT TO SEE YOU ALL SO
TONIGHT I WANT TO BASICALLY
FOCUS ON SOME OF THE WORK WE'RE
DOING AND CREATING A NEW
DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
>> I THOUGHT I WOULD USE THESE
OPPORTUNITIES LEADING UP TO THE
COMPLETION OF OUR PLAN TO KIND
OF HIGHLIGHT SOME OF THE THINGS
IN THE PLAN.
>> SO TONIGHT WHAT I WANT TO DO
IS JUST DO A FEW BRIEF DENHA
ONE ON ONE SLIDES AND THEN JUMP
INTO SOME DETAILS.
>> SO WHAT IS A DOWNTOWN
DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY?
>> WE ARE A COMPONENT UNIT
OF THE CITY.
WE ARE EXCLUSIVELY FOCUSED ON
SIXTY SEVEN BLOCKS OF OUR
DOWNTOWN AND WE ARE HERE TO
SERVE CITY GOALS BY MAKING
INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENTS IN
OUR DOWNTOWN.
SO THE NRA DENHA IS FUNDED BY
TAX INCREMENT FINANCING BETTER
KNOWN AS TEEF AND TEF IS THE
CITY'S ONLY REGIONAL FUNDING
TOOL TO LEVERAGE TAX DOLLARS TO
MAKE INVESTMENTS IN OUR
DOWNTOWN WITHOUT A DDA THE THE
CITY WOULD BE TAKING ON ALL
OF THE PROJECTS AND MAINTENANCE
THAT THE DENHA IS RESPONSIBLE
FOR.
THE CITY WOULD BE SOLELY
RESPONSIBLE FOR THOSE PROJECTS
.
THE NRA DEDé WE SPEND
APPROXIMATELY 90 PERCENT OF OUR
TIF REVENUE IS FOCUSED ON
CAPITAL PROJECTS AND
MAINTENANCE.
>> SO WHY ARE WE CREATING A NEW
PLAN?
SO THE PLAN WE ARE OPERATING
UNDER RIGHT NOW WAS ESTABLISHED
IN TWO THOUSAND AND THREE AS WE
HAVE DONE RESEARCH ON OTHER
DAYS IT SEEMS MORE TYPICAL FOR
A D.A. TO UPDATE THAT PLAN
EVERY SIX TO TEN YEARS.
SO THIS NEW PLAN WILL REFLECT
UPDATED CITY GOALS.
IT WILL ADDRESS NEW
OPPORTUNITIES.
IT WILL ENSURE THE HIGHEST
LEVEL OF TRANSPARENCY AND
STEWARDSHIP AND IT WILL BETTER
ALIGN WITH UPDATED STATE
STATUTE.
>> AND OUR STATE STATUTE WAS
UPDATED IN TWENTY EIGHTEEN.
>> SO WHERE ARE WE NOW?
JUST KIND OF A HIGH LEVEL
TIMELINE SO ALL OF TWENTY
TWENTY FOR THE DENHA HAS BEEN
WORKING HAD BEEN WORKING ON OUR
DEVELOPMENT PLAN AND WE DID SO
IN PARALLEL WITH OTHER CITY
PLANNING EFFORTS.
>> SO THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
THE CIRCULATION STUDY, THE
JURISDICTIONAL STUDY MOST
RECENTLY THE GEOTHERMAL STUDY
AND THEN INTERNALLY DEDé IN
CITY STAFF WERE WORKING ON WHAT
WE'RE CALLING A BASE LEVEL
OF SERVICE DOCUMENT FOR OUR
DOWNTOWN.
SO HERE WE ARE IN TWENTY TWENTY
FIVE WE ARE BEGINNING TO DRAFT
THAT PLAN AND ALTHOUGH THOSE
PLANNING EFFORTS ARE IN
DIFFERENT STAGES OF COMPLETION,
WE HAVE WHAT WE NEED TO INFORM
OUR PLAN.
SO WE WILL BE FOLLOWING A VERY
PRESCRIBED STATUTORY PROCESS
AND OUR PLAN IS TO HAVE A
COMPLETED PLAN FOR YOUR
CONSIDERATION IN AUGUST.
SO NOW TO DOVE INTO SOME OF THE
HOPEFULLY MORE INTERESTING
PIECES OF THIS PRESENTATION.
SO IN ADDITION TO A WIDE RANGE
OF CAPITAL PROJECTS THAT YOU
ARE GOING TO SEE IN THIS PLAN,
I WANT TO TALK TONIGHT ABOUT A
FEW OF THE OTHER PIECES AND
HIGHLIGHTS THAT WE ARE WORKING
ON INCLUDING IN THE PLAN.
>> SO ONE IS EXPANDING THE DA'S
ROLE IN MAINTENANCE AND
SERVICE.
THE OTHER
IS THE DENHA TAKING
ON CAPITAL INVESTMENTS TO
SUPPORT MORE EFFICIENT, SAFE
AND ATTRACTIVE STREET CLOSURES
AND THE THIRD PIECE IS LOOKING
AT THE DA'S BOUNDARY.
SO TO START WITH AN EXPANDED
ROLE IN MAINTENANCE AND
SERVICE.
SO WE RECOGNIZE THAT THE
CLEANLINESS AND MAINTENANCE
OF OUR DOWNTOWN IS REALLY A
REFLECTION ON OUR CITY.
WE WOULD LIKE TO SEE THE DDA
TAKE A LARGER ROLE IN THAT
SERVICE AND MAINTENANCE AND WE
ARE PROPOSING DOING SO USING A
MODEL SIMILAR TO HOW WE OPERATE
OUR DOWNTOWN PARKING STRUCTURES
WHERE WE CONTRACT WITH ONE
VENDOR WHO THEN FULLY MANAGES A
TEAM OF EMPLOYEES.
>> IN THIS CASE IT WOULD BE A
TEAM OF DOWNTOWN SERVICE
EMPLOYEES.
SO THIS DOWNTOWN SERVICE TEAM,
THIS MODEL IS HAPPENING IN
DOWNTOWN THROUGHOUT THE COUNTRY
JUST IN OUR CLOSER PROXIMITY
DETROIT, KALAMAZOO, GRAND
RAPIDS JUST TO NAME A FEW ALL
HAVE PROGRAMS LIKE THIS.
THESE PROGRAMS ARE COMMONLY
KNOWN AS AMBASSADOR PROGRAMS.
WE DO NOT BELIEVE THAT THE TERM
AMBASSADOR IS A GOOD
DESCRIPTIVE TERM FOR HOW WE
ENVISION THIS PROGRAM BECAUSE
WE ENVISION THIS PROGRAM REALLY
FOCUSED ON SERVICE AND
MAINTENANCE.
>> FOR THOSE OF YOU WHO HAVE
BEEN AROUND FOR A WHILE, YOU
MAY REMEMBER ABOUT TEN YEARS OR
SO AGO THE DDA DID EXPLORE
HAVING AN AMBASSADOR PROGRAM IN
ANN ARBOR.
I BELIEVE AT THE TIME THE FOCUS
OF THAT PROGRAM WAS CLEAN, SAFE
AND MAYBE MORE OF AN EMPHASIS
ON A GRIEDER TYPE OF FUNCTION.
THAT IS NOT WHAT WE ARE LOOKING
AT AT THE TIME THAT PROGRAM WAS
NOT EMBRACED BY THE COMMUNITY
TO SAY THE LEAST.
THE WORD MALL COP KIND OF GOT
THROWN AROUND THAT SORT
OF STUCK AND THAT PROGRAM WENT
NOWHERE.
SO WE ARE LOOKING AT THIS AS
CLEARLY A SERVICE TEAM AND JUST
TO PROVIDE SOME EXAMPLES OF THE
TYPE OF THINGS THIS TEAM WOULD
BE RESPONSIBLE FOR SIDEWALK
SIDEWALK SWEEPING AND CURBSIDE
CLEANING WEEDING TRASH REMOVAL
I COULD TALK A LOT ABOUT EACH
OF THESE.
I DON'T HAVE THE TIME TONIGHT
BUT I JUST WANT TO POINT OUT
SAY THE PICTURE IN THE MIDDLE
THOSE ARE THAT'S A TRIPIT.
WE HAVE MANY TREE PITS DOWNTOWN
THAT LOOK JUST LIKE THAT AND
WHEN YOU HAVE WEEDS GROWING
LIKE THAT IT COMMUNICATES KIND
OF A LACK OF ATTENTION THAT WE
DON'T WANT.
THEY WOULD DO GRAFFITI AND
HANDBILL REMOVAL OF COURSE ONLY
HANDBILLS THAT WERE NOT CURRENT
BUT AGAIN WITH GRAFFITI AND
HANDBILLS IF THERE'S A
SIGNIFICANT BUILD UP OF THESE
TYPES OF THINGS, NOT ONLY DOES
IT DIMINISH THE CLEANLINESS
FEEL IN AN AREA, IT ALSO
DIMINISHES THE FEELING
OF SAFETY AND SECURITY.
IN JUST A FEW MORE EXAMPLES YOU
CAN SEE WE'VE GOT A LOT
HANDBILLS.
THERE'S A LOT OF WORK THAT
COULD BE DONE JUST IN THAT AREA
ALONE.
THAT MIDDLE PICTURE JUST SHOWS
AN AMENITY ZONE AS AN EXAMPLE
OF AN AREA WHERE WHEATING
DEBRIS PICKUP COULD BE
BENEFICIAL.
AND THEN FINALLY WE JUST HAVE
SOME TRIPIT PICTURES THERE TO
SHOW THOSE TREE PITS ARE AREAS
THAT ACCUMULATE A LOT OF TRASH,
DEBRIS AND LEAVES.
THEY NEED DEEP CLEANING.
THEY NEED A LOT OF ATTENTION
AND THIS IS SOMETHING A
DOWNTOWN SERVICE TEAM COULD
HANDLE.
>> THERE ARE A WHOLE HOST
OF OTHER THINGS AND I WISH I
HAD PICTURES OF ALL OF THESE
THINGS BECAUSE THEY'RE EQUALLY
AS IMPORTANT BUT I DO WANT TO
CALL THEM OUT.
SO SNOW REMOVAL AND ICE
APPLICATION AT SIDEWALK RAMPS,
BUS STOPS, ADA PARKING SPACES
AND BENCHES.
SO THIS IS AN AREA THAT WE
IDENTIFIED AND WE WERE WORKING
WITH CITY STAFF AS A GAP IN
SERVICE DOWNTOWN SORT OF NO
MAN'S LAND.
NO ONE'S REALLY TAKING CARE
OF THOSE AREAS BRICK BENCH AND
BIKE HOOP REPAIRS DEDé
CURRENTLY DOES THAT.
WE WOULD CONTINUE TO DO THAT
JUST SHIFTING IT TO THIS
PROGRAM BIKEWAY DELINEATOR
MAINTENANCE AND REPLACEMENT
THAT RIGHT NOW IS A FUNCTION
OF THE CITY WE THINK AND CITY
STAFF AGREES IT MAKES MORE
SENSE FOR THAT TO COME UNDER
THE UMBRELLA OF THE DDA THROUGH
THIS SERVICE TEAM SUPPLEMENTAL
PEDESTRIAN TRASH CAN PICKUP
WHEN VISITOR VOLUME IS HIGH.
SO WE KNOW THAT OUR PUBLIC
WORKS DEPARTMENT DOES A GREAT
JOB WITH ALL OF THE PED CANS
DOWNTOWN.
BUT WHEN WE HAVE HIGH VISITOR
EVENTS AND I'LL USE THE TEXAS
FOOTBALL GAME AS AN EXAMPLE WE
NEED MORE ATTENTION TO OUR
TRASH CANS THAT PUBLIC WORKS
SIMPLY DOESN'T HAVE THE TIME OR
CAPACITY TO MANAGE POWER
WASHING BOTH SIDEWALKS AND
ALLEYS.
THE SEASONAL LIGHT INSTALLATION
DDA CURRENTLY HANDLES THAT WE
WOULD CONTINUE TO DO THAT JUST
THROUGH THE SERVICE TEAM.
THE SERVICE TEAM COULD ALSO
PROVIDE CONNECTIONS TO SERVICES
TO THOSE IN NEED COULD PROVIDE
BUSINESS OWNERS WITH
EDUCATIONAL REMINDER OF CODE
REQUIREMENTS.
SO JUST AS AN EXAMPLE, THINK
ABOUT THE IMPORTANCE
OF BUSINESSES BREAKING DOWN
CARDBOARD BOXES BEFORE THEY PUT
THEM IN THE DUMPSTER.
I KNOW IT SOUNDS LIKE A SMALL
THING BUT IT MAKES A DIFFERENCE
.
AND THEN MORE EYES ON THE
STREET IN TERMS OF REPORTING
OF THINGS LIKE STREET LIGHT
OUTAGES, OTHER INFRASTRUCTURE
PROBLEMS AND THEN THE FINAL
ITEM I HAVE THERE IN
HIGHLIGHTED IS BARRICADE
DEPLOYMENT AND I SAVED THAT
TILL THE END BECAUSE IT GOES
HAND IN HAND WITH WHAT I WANT
TO TALK ABOUT NEXT WHICH IS THE
DDA TAKING ON INFRASTRUCTURE
PROJECTS THAT WOULD SUPPORT
DOWNTOWN STREET CLOSURES TO
MAKE THEM MORE EFFICIENT, SAFER
AND MORE ATTRACTIVE.
>> SO DEDé STAFF HAVE BEEN
WORKING WITH PUBLIC SERVICES
AND PUBLIC SAFETY TO EVALUATE
DIFFERENT BARRICADE OPTIONS
THAT WOULD BE FEASIBLE FOR OUR
DOWNTOWN.
THEY HAVE COME UP WITH A MENU
OF OPTIONS ONE OF THE OPTIONS
IS THIS RETRACTABLE BOLLARDS
SYSTEM THAT YOU SEE HERE.
THIS IS A PICTURE OF MAIN
STREET IN NORTHVILLE SO
NORTHVILLE HAS BEEN USING THESE
RETRACTABLE BOLLARDS FOR A
COUPLE OF YEARS.
WE'VE TALKED WITH NORTHVILLE.
THEY'RE VERY HAPPY WITH THE
BOLLARDS.
THEY'VE GONE THROUGH A FEW
WINTERS SO FAR THEY HAVEN'T HAD
ANY ISSUES.
THEY TELL US THAT THEY'RE VERY
EASY TO DEPLOY.
THEY TAKE ABOUT FIVE MINUTES
FOR SOMEONE WITH A KEY TO COME
OUT, PULL THEM UP AND LOCK THEM
IN PLACE.
SO THIS IS WHERE THAT DOWNTOWN
SERVICE TEAM WOULD COME IN
PLACE.
WE WOULD HAVE STAFF TO ACTUALLY
MANAGE THAT DEPLOYMENT.
>> AND I'LL JUST ADD EXCUSE ME
WITH THESE NOT EVERY
INTERSECTION COULD ACCOMMODATE
A RETRACTABLE BOLLARDS SYSTEM
AND CLEARLY THERE'S A
SIGNIFICANT INFRASTRUCTURE
INVESTMENT WITH THIS TYPE
OF SYSTEM.
BUT WE DO BELIEVE THAT IT'S
WORTH EXPLORING AND IT'S WORTH
INVESTING IN.
>> AND THEN FINALLY, DEDé,
BOUNDARY EXPANSION.
SO RIGHT NOW WE HAVE THE
ABILITY TO INVEST IN A SIXTY
SEVEN BLOCK AREA DOWNTOWN THAT
WAS ESTABLISHED OVER FORTY
YEARS AGO.
SO NOW THAT WE ARE WORKING ON
THIS DEVELOPMENT PLAN, IT SEEMS
LIKE A NATURAL TIME TO LOOK AT
THE AREAS THAT ARE A ADJACENT
TO OUR BOUNDARIES AND EVALUATE
DO THOSE AREAS NEED INVESTMENT?
>> AND I'LL BRING IT BACK TO
THE D.A. BEING A TOOL FOR THE
CITY TO USE TO MAKE INVESTMENT
IN OUR DOWNTOWN.
SO REALLY FOR US THE QUESTION
IS IS THERE A NEED BEYOND OUR
CURRENT BOUNDARY FOR THE TYPE
OF INVESTMENT THAT THE DDA
MAKES IN OUR DOWNTOWN AND YOU
KNOW, IN ANN ARBOR TALKING
ABOUT DENHA EXPANSION IS NOT
SOMETHING THAT IS COMMONLY
DISCUSSED.
HOWEVER, I CAN TELL YOU WITH
OTHER DIVAS IT REALLY ISN'T
UNCOMMON.
GRAND RAPIDS IS A GREAT
EXAMPLE.
THEY HAVE EXPANDED 16 TIMES
SINCE 1980.
SO AGAIN WE FEEL LIKE NOW IS
THE TIME TO HAVE THESE
DISCUSSIONS AND THAT IS ALL I
HAVE OTHER THAN TO SAY THE
FIRST ELEVATE PROGRAM
OSCILLATION.
IT'S A TEMPORARY ART
INSTALLATION IN LIBERTY PARK
PLAZA.
IT IS IN PLACE IT IS THERE
UNTIL MID-MARCH.
I DON'T EXPECT ANYBODY TO GO
THERE TONIGHT OR TOMORROW GIVEN
THE WEATHER BUT I HOPE THAT YOU
WILL HELP SPREAD THE WORD AND
CHECK OUT THIS INSTALLATION.
>> THAT'S ALL I HAVE.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
WE NOW COME TO PUBLIC COMMENT
RESERVE TIME PUBLIC COMMENT
RESERVE TIME IS AN OPPORTUNITY
FOR MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC TO
SPEAK TO COUNCIL IN THE
COMMUNITY AT MATTERS
OF MUNICIPAL INTEREST TO SPEAK
AT PUBLIC COMMENT RESERVE TIME
ONE NEEDS TO HAVE SIGNED UP IN
ADVANCE BY CONTACTING HER CITY
CLERK SPEAKERS IN ALL INSTANCES
BOTH HERE AND ONLINE WILL HAVE
THREE MINUTES IN WHICH TO
SPEAK.
SO PLEASE PAY CLOSE ATTENTION
TO THE TIME OUR CLERK OR THE
TIME CLOCK WILL NOTIFY YOU IN
THIRTY SECONDS REMAINING AND
WHEN YOUR TIME HAS EXPIRED WHEN
YOUR TIME'S EXPIRED PLEASE
CONCLUDE YOUR REMARKS AND CEDE
THE FLOOR.
OUR FIRST SPEAKER TODAY IS
DENHA KAUFMAN
.
>> HI GOOD EVENING.
THREE MINUTES TIME.
I DON'T KNOW WHAT TO DO WITH IT
ALL SO THANK YOU CITY COUNCIL
AND MAYOR TAYLOR FOR THE
OPPORTUNITY TO SPEAK TONIGHT AS
AN ANN ARBOR RESIDENT WITH KIDS
IN PUBLIC SCHOOLS BEING ABLE TO
COME AND SPEAK AT CITY COUNCIL
ISN'T EASY AS THE LIFE OF A
PARENT IS A BUSY ONE.
CONSEQUENTLY, PARENTS ARE OFTEN
UNDERREPRESENTED AT THIS TABLE
AND IN HOUSING DISCUSSIONS IN
GENERAL MANY OF US ARE WATCHING
CLOSELY, HOWEVER AND WHILE YOU
MAY NOT ALWAYS HEAR HEAR FROM
US, WE CARE DEEPLY ABOUT THE
HOUSING SHORTAGE IN ANN ARBOR
AS IT IMPACTS US EVERY DAY IN
THE HIGH COST OF LIVING FOR
FAMILIES AND THE CONTINUING
SHRINKAGE OF OUR SCHOOL
POPULATION.
FEWER FAMILIES BEING ABLE TO
AFFORD TO LIVE HERE MEANS FEWER
STUDENTS WHICH IN TURN MEANS
FEWER RESOURCES AND PROGRAMS IN
OUR SCHOOLS AND YES, LESS MONEY
FOR OUR TEACHERS, KIDS NEED
VIBRANT GROWING LOCAL
POPULATIONS FOR TOO
LONG A BIG
CHUNK OF OUR CITY HAS STOOD
ESSENTIALLY VACANT AS NEITHER A
PARK NOR HOUSING NOR EVEN SPACE
FOR BUSINESSES.
THAT'S WHY I LOVE THE PLAN TO
USE SPACE ABOVE THE LIBRARY AND
A SECTION OF THE CENTER OF THE
CITY FOR NEW HOUSING NOT ONLY
WILL IT MAKE IT POSSIBLE FOR
MORE PEOPLE TO LIVE DOWNTOWN
INSTEAD OF COMMUTING INTO OUR
CITY BUT JUST WHAT A COOL IDEA
TO LIVE ABOVE AND AN AWARD
WINNING LIBRARY IN THE CENTER
OF THE CITY WITH RESTAURANTS
AND BUSSING RIGHT THERE NEXT TO
YOU AND COOL ATTRACTIONS.
WE HAVE A LOT TO OFFER.
PLEASE MOVE FORWARD WITH THIS
GREAT IDEA OF HAVING HOUSING
DEVELOPED OVER THE LIBRARY
AVERAGE RESIDENTS HAVE LONG
GIVEN UP THE IDEA OF A CENTER
OF THE CITY PARK BEING ANYTHING
MORE THAN A PARKING LOT AND
IT'S TIME TO MOVE ON TO CREATE
SOMETHING REALLY COOL DOWNTOWN
SO OUR YOUNG PEOPLE CAN
CONTINUE LIVING HERE AND SPACE
IN OTHER AREAS IS FREED UP TO
ALSO MAKE IT MORE POSSIBLE FOR
FAMILIES TO MOVE HERE.
AND SINCE I'M USED TO ONLY
HAVING 30 SECONDS TO SPEAK AT
THE SCHOOL BOARD MEETINGS, IF I
MIGHT USE A FEW OF MY EXTRA
SECONDS ABOUT SOME COMMENTS
THAT WERE MADE AT THE JANUARY
6TH MEETING ABOUT HOLOCAUST
TEACHING IN ANN ARBOR, I'M A
PARENT IN THE DISTRICT.
I KNOW MULTIPLE PARENTS ACROSS
THE DISTRICT WHO HAVE DEGREES
AS ACTUAL HISTORY PROFESSORS,
AS ACTUAL EXPERTS AND JEWISH
STUDIES.
THIS HAS NEVER COME UP AND
INDEED THE SPEAKER THAT SPOKE
THAT NIGHT HAS NOT SPOKEN TO AN
ARBOR'S SCHOOL BOARD ABOUT THIS
ISSUE EITHER FOR AT LEAST A
YEAR I THINK SO PLEASE TAKE
THAT INTO ACCOUNT IF YOU NEED
TO TALK TO ACTUAL PARENTS IN
THE DISTRICT.
I'M HAPPY TO CONNECT YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS DOUGLAS
HAKIN, HEAD.
>> GOOD EVENING, MAYOR TAYLOR.
COUNCIL MEMBERS APPRECIATE THE
OPPORTUNITY TO SPEAK WITH YOU
TONIGHT.
I'M DOUG AIKEN HEAD 583
GLENDALE CIRCLE IN WARD FIVE.
MY CONCERN TONIGHT IS COUNCILOR
AGENDA ITEM DC TO A RESOLUTION
RESOLUTION TO ENGAGE THE ANN
ARBOR DISTRICT LIBRARY IN
DISCUSSION REGARDING THE
POTENTIAL DEVELOPMENT INCLUDING
HOUSING ON A PORTION OF THE
CITY PARCEL KNOWN AS LIBRARY
LANE PARKING LOT ALSO KNOWN AS
THE CENTER OF THE CITY PURSUANT
TO THE CHARTER AMENDMENT IT WAS
PASSED BY VOTERS AND HEADED
ADDED TO THE CITY CHARTER IN
2000 EIGHTEEN AS YOU KNOW THAT
AMENDMENT RESERVES PUBLIC LAND
IN THE BLOCK SURROUNDED BY
FIFTH STREET LIBERTY DIVISION
AND WILLIAM FOR PUBLIC USE IN
THE FORM OF A DOWNTOWN COMMONS
OR CENTRAL PARK.
>> IT'S ENTIRELY APPROPRIATE
THAT THE CITY AND THE ENTIRE
BRITISH LIBRARY ENGAGE IN THESE
DISCUSSIONS REGARDING THE
CENTER FOR THE CITY.
I REQUEST THE PROPOSED
RESOLUTION BE AMENDED THOUGH TO
INCLUDE THE LIBRARY GREEN
CONSERVANCY IN DISCUSSIONS WITH
THE CITY IN SEATTLE REGARDING
THE USE OF THE TERM THE CITY SO
THAT THE PUBLIC HAS A SEAT AT
THE TABLE AND THE REPORTS AND
THE DISCUSSIONS.
I ALSO ASK THE CITY REENGAGE IN
DISCUSSIONS WITH THE LIBRARY
GREEN CONSERVANCY ABOUT
PLANNING FOR THE CENTER OF THE
CITY SPECIFICALLY ABOUT
REACHING AN AGREEMENT TO WORK
TOGETHER AND TO ISSUE A
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING SO
THAT WE CAN RAMP UP OUR
FUNDRAISING AND SUPPORT OF SITE
PLANNING EFFORTS AS WE CONTINUE
TO INCREASE HOUSING IN DOWNTOWN
IN ANN ARBOR AND INCREASE
HOUSING DENSITY.
IT'S MORE IMPORTANT THAN EVER
THAT WE DEVELOP THE CENTER
OF THE CITY SO THAT DOWNTOWN
RESIDENTS AS WELL AS THE
GENERAL PUBLIC CAN HAVE ACCESS
TO A DOWNTOWN PARK AND PUBLIC
SPACE FOR RECREATION AND
GENERAL BREATHING FRESH AIR.
WE LOOK FORWARD TO WORKING WITH
YOU IN THIS REGARD.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
>> OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS RITA
MITCHELL.
WE'RE IN A CHALLENGING TIME FOR
DEMOCRACY.
MY NAME IS RITA MITCHELL.
I LIVE AT SIX TWENTY ONE FIFTH
STREET.
I MEAN SPEAKING AS PRESIDENT
OF THE LIBRARY GREEN
CONSERVANCY A 5.1 NONPROFIT
ORGANIZATION COMPRISED
VANDERBURG COMMUNITY VOLUNTEERS
SINCE TWENTY EIGHTEEN THE
LIBRARY CONSERVANCY HAS RAISED
PRIVATE FUNDS TO SUPPORT
ESTABLISHING A CENTER OF THE
CITY AS A PLACE THAT WILL
INVIGORATE AND ARBOR THAT WILL
BE THE WELCOMING URBAN PLACE
OF INTEREST ENTERTAINMENT AND
COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT FOR
HANOVERS FUTURE IN TWENTY
EIGHTEEN TWENTY SIX THOUSAND
SEVEN HUNDRED FIFTY TWO VOTERS
EXPRESS THEIR SUPPORT FOR
ESTABLISHING THE CENTER OF THE
CITY THAT CHARTER AMENDMENT
REFERENDUM WASN'T JUST ANOTHER
PUBLIC OPINION POLL THAT YOU
CAN TAKE OR LEAVE AS VOTERS WE
EXPECT OUR PUBLIC OFFICIALS TO
RESPECT DEMOCRATICALLY
DETERMINED ELECTIONS.
CITY COUNCIL APPOINTED TWO
GROUPS THE CENTER OF THE CITY
TASK FORCE AND THE COUNCIL
OF THE COMMONS.
BOTH GROUPS INCLUDED CITY
COUNCIL MEMBERS, CREATIVE IDEAS
AND RECOMMENDATIONS WERE
GENERATED AND DOCUMENTED BY
BOTH GROUPS WHEN MEETINGS THE
COUNCIL OF THE COMMONS
CONCLUDED IN MAY TWENTY TWENTY
THREE CITY COUNCIL UNANIMOUSLY
APPROVED RECOMMENDATIONS THAT
DIRECTED PARKS TO ADVISE ON THE
CENTER OF THE CITY IN FOLLOW UP
THE LIBRARY GREEN CONSERVANCY
PRESENTED STAFF WITH A
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING AND
MSU TO WORK WITH THE PARKS IN
ORDER TO PROCEED WITH THE
DESIGN AND COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT
REQUEST FOR PROPOSALS AND RFP.
AT THAT TIME WE PLEDGE SEVENTY
THOUSAND DOLLARS TO MATCH THE
FORTY THOUSAND DOLLARS THAT
COUNCIL ALLOCATED IN 2010 ONE
THANK YOU THAT WAS TO SUPPORT
PROCEEDING WITH AN RFP.
WE WAITED AND WHILE PARKS
FOCUSED ON THE BICENTENNIAL
PARK WE'VE HEARD NOTHING
DESPITE OUR REPEATED REQUESTS
FOR INFORMATION, THE DC TWO
RESOLUTION CRITICIZES THE
ADEQUACY OF FUNDRAISING FOR THE
CENTER OF THE CITY.
ALTHOUGH NO ONE REPRESENTING
THE CITY HAS ASKED FOR
DISCUSSIONS ABOUT FUNDS.
WE KNOW AS YOU DO THAT OUR
FUNDRAISING EFFORTS ARE
CONSTRAINED BY THE LACK OF AN
M.O. YOU AN AGREEMENT THAT WILL
SIGNAL TO DONORS AND GRANTERS
THAT THE CITY IS COMMITTED TO
IMPLEMENTING THE CENTER OF THE
CITY.
WE'RE MIDWEST NICE AND HAVE
ATTEMPTED TO WORK RESPECTFULLY
WITH YOU TO MOVE FORWARD IN A
COOPERATIVE COMMUNITY BASED
MANNER TO ESTABLISH THE CENTER
OF THE CITY.
WE MET WITH MANY OF YOU
INDIVIDUALLY WE ASK YOU TO
RESPECT THE CITY CHARTER AS
AMENDED BY THE VOTERS AND TO
MOVE FORWARD IN A TRANSPARENT
MANNER TO IMPLEMENT THE CENTER
OF THE CITY URBAN PARK PLEASE
AMEND DC TO TO INCLUDE THE
LIBRARY CONSERVANCY IS AN
ACTIVE INTERESTED GROUP IN THE
DISCUSSIONS BETWEEN THE CITY
ADMINISTRATOR AND
REPRESENTATIVES OF THE NRA
DISTRICT LIBRARY AND OTHER
GROUPS ON THE TOPIC OF THE
CENTER OF THE CITY AS IS
DESIGNATED IN THE CITY CHARTER
CHAPTER ONE SECTION ONE POINT
FOUR PLEASE HONOR THE RESULTS
OF THE NOVEMBER TWENTY EIGHTEEN
ELECTION YEAR ACTION ON DC TWO
TONIGHT WILL SHOW WHETHER YOU
RESPECT THE VOICES OF THE
VOTERS.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS JIM PIKE.
>> ALL RIGHT.
HEY AS USUAL, SUPER NERVOUS
STANDING UP HERE IN FRONT
OF ALL OF YOU BUT IT'S GOOD TO
SEE YOU.
SO BASED ON GOING THROUGH OLD
CITY GOVERNMENT CALENDARS, I
SEE THAT THE CENTER OF THE CITY
COUNCIL THE COMMONS GROUP MET
TWENTY SIX TIMES FROM MARCH
OF TWENTY TWENTY ONE TO ME
OF TWENTY TWENTY THREE I
BELIEVE I AM MORE OR LESS
CORRECT IN SAYING THAT IN ALL
THAT TIME THE GROUP CAME UP
WITH NO ACTIONABLE PLANS
WHATSOEVER TO BUILD ANYTHING ON
THE PARCEL APART FROM A SMALL
COMMUNITY GARDEN.
I HAVE ALSO GONE THROUGH THE
ANN ARBOR DISTRICT LIBRARIES
ANNUAL REPORTS FOR THE PAST
DECADE OR SO THEY DOCUMENT A
CLEAR RECORD OF RIGOROUSLY
PLANNED AND EXECUTED ACTION
THAT HAS INCLUDED BUILDING
SUBSTANTIAL NEW FACILITIES LIKE
THE REMODELED ENTRANCE TO THE
DOWNTOWN BRANCH AND THE MASSIVE
REBUILD OF THE WEST GATE BRANCH
FOR UPWARDS OF FIVE MILLION
DOLLARS PLUS ROUTINELY SPENDING
IN THE NEIGHBORHOOD OF HALF A
MILLION ANNUALLY ON REPAIRS AND
MAINTENANCE AS WELL AS SPENDING
HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS ANNUALLY
ON PROGRAMING IN CONTRAST TO
THE CENTER OF THE CITY FOLKS,
THE ADL ARE CLEARLY EFFECTIVE
BOTH WITH THEIR PLANNING
EFFORTS AND WITH THEIR
EXPENDITURES THAT HAVE BROUGHT
ABOUT POSITIVE RESULTS FOR OUR
COMMUNITY SO I SUPPORT DC TOO
BECAUSE ACTING ON THIS
RESOLUTION WILL MOVE IN HARBOR
TOWARD ACTUALLY CREATING A
COMMUNITY.
COMMONS IN ANN ARBOR IS
DOWNTOWN THAT WILL BE
SUCCESSFUL AND VIBRANT BECAUSE
IT WILL BE CONCRETELY PLANNED
AND FUNDED IN COOPERATION WITH
THE LOCAL INSTITUTION THAT HAS
A WELL-DOCUMENTED TRACK RECORD
FOR SUPPORTING AND ENRICHING
ANN ARBOR BY BUILDING NEW
BUILDINGS, STEWARDING PUBLIC
FUNDS AND SUPPORTING OUR
COMMUNITY.
AND THIS WILL HAPPEN BECAUSE
OF WHAT AS OUTLINED IN DC TWO
WILL BE A TRANSPARENT PROCESS
WHEREBY THE CITY ADMINISTRATOR
AND OTHER CITY STAFF WILL
COLLABORATE WITH THE LEADERSHIP
OF THE ADL.
IN OTHER WORDS, THIS IS
EMPHATICALLY NOT BEING
TRIGGERED BY THE KIND OF MURAL
OR CITY COUNCIL ACTION SOME
THAT SOME RESIDENTS PERCEIVE
RIGHTLY OR WRONGLY AS OVERREACH
.
THIS RESOLUTION OPENS A NEW
PATH TOWARD POSITIVE EVELY
ACTIVATING THE CENTER OF THE
CITY POZOLE.
IT DOES SO BY TAKING THE
PROCESS OF REALIZING THE
POSITIVE IDEALS BEHIND THE
AMENDMENT THAT WAS APPROVED BY
VOTERS ALMOST SEVEN YEARS AGO
AND PLACING THAT PROCESS INTO
THE HANDS OF PEOPLE WHO
EMPHATICALLY VERIFIABLY KNOW
HOW TO GET THINGS DONE AND HAVE
A LITERALLY AWARD WINNING
RECORD OF SERVING OUR
COMMUNITY.
>> THANK THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS ADAM
GOODMAN.
>> MAYOR ADAM GOODMAN IS
JOINING US ON ZOOME ADAM
GOODMAN, GO AHEAD.
HI, THIS IS ADAM GOODMAN.
I'M SPEAKING TO YOU FROM THE
FIFTH WORD TONIGHT AND I'M
SPEAKING TO YOU BECAUSE I AM
SUPER EXCITED ABOUT BC2 AND
THIS RESOLUTION ABOUT WORKING
WITH THE LIBRARY FOR POSSIBLE
DEVELOPMENT AND I HOPE YOU WILL
APPROVE, YOU KNOW, WITH AS IT
IS CURRENTLY WRITTEN AND
WITHOUT INCASED IT IS WELL PAST
TIME THAT WE MOVE FORWARD WITH
A SERIOUS PROPOSAL TO TURN THIS
DESOLATE AND UNINVITING PARKING
LOT INTO AN ASSET FOR OUR
COMMUNITY.
>> UNFORTUNATELY WE SPENT THE
LAST OVER SIX YEARS FIDDLING
AROUND WITH DEEPLY UNSERIOUS
DISCUSSIONS IN THE WAKE OF THE
UNFUNDED TWENTY EIGHTEEN
PROPOSAL TO INSTALL COMMONS
WHATEVER THE HECK THAT MEANS ON
TOP OF THE PARKING STRUCTURE
TWENTY EIGHTEEN THE VOTERS WERE
SOLD A FALSE PROMISE BY MANY
OF THE SAME PEOPLE WHO ARE
SPEAKING TO YOU TONIGHT AND TO
EXPLAIN WHAT I MEAN GOING TO
READ AS I HAVE BEFORE FROM A
TWENTY NINETEEN AM LIFE STORY
ENTITLED WHO WILL PAY FOR IN
OUR DOWNTOWN CENTRAL PARK THIS
ARTICLE IDENTIFIES WILL
HATHAWAY AS ONE OF THE LEADERS
OF THE CENTRAL PARK CAMPAIGN
QUOTES HIM AS SAYING MOST
DOWNTOWN PARKS WE'VE LOOKED AT
THE SIGNIFICANCE FROM PRIVATE
DONORS.
THE ARTICLE CONTINUES.
THANK WILLHELM, ANOTHER
RESIDENT AND WORKED ON THE
CAMPAIGN FAILED LAST YEAR TO
PUT HIS ENERGY INTO RAISING
COMMUNITY DONATIONS TO FUND THE
PARK'S COMMENTS THAT VOTERS
PROVED.
THE ARTICLE ALSO SAYS ELLIOTT
HABER, ANOTHER LEADER OF THE
CENTRAL PARK CAMPAIGN, SAID
LAST YEAR THE PARK'S LAST
COMMENTS COULD BE FUNDED IN A
WAY THAT'S NEUTRAL IN TERMS
OF THE IMPACT ON THE CITY'S
GENERAL FUND BUDGET.
THEY ONLY HAVE THREE MINUTES SO
I'M GOING TO STOP READING THERE
.
THE POINT OF THIS IS OVER SIX
YEARS LATER WHAT LIBRARY GREEN
IS ACTUALLY RAISED AND
SLAUGHTERED ORDERS OF MAGNITUDE
OFF FROM WHAT WOULD ACTUALLY BE
NEEDED TO DEVELOP A PARK ON THE
SITE A SPECIALLY WITH THE
ENGINEERING CHALLENGES OF DOING
SO ON A STRUCTURE THAT WAS NOT
DESIGNED FOR THAT PURPOSE AGAIN
AND AGAIN THESE FOLKS HAVE
TRIED INSTEAD TO CLAIM THAT THE
CITY HAS SOME OBLIGATION TO
PUNCH THEIR PIPE DREAM OTHER
COMMUNITY NEEDS BE.
THIS IS NOT THE MESSAGE THE
VOTERS HEARD ON TWENTY EIGHTEEN
AND IT'S CERTAINLY NOT ANYWHERE
IN THE LANGUAGE OF THE CHARTER
.
AGAIN THIS IS DEEPLY UNSERIOUS
AND HAS BEEN A COLOSSAL WASTE
OF TIME RESOURCES.
BUT THE LIBRARY ON THE OTHER
HAND DOES HAVE A PROVEN TRACK
RECORD OF DEVELOPING EXCITING,
VIBRANT AND ARCHITECTURALLY
INTERESTING COMMUNITY SPACES.
I WAS STILL TWELVE YEARS AGO IN
THE LIBRARY PROPOSED TO BUILD A
NEW DOWNTOWN BRANCH BUT
UNFORTUNATELY THE VOTERS
REJECTED THAT TAX TO FINANCE
THAT PROJECT AND NOW THAT
CURRENT DOWNTOWN BRANCH IS
LITERALLY FALLING APART 30
SECONDS.
>> IT'S EXCITING THIS TIME
AROUND IS THE LIBRARY IS
ACTUALLY LOOKING TO CREATE A
PROJECT THAT'S SELF-FINANCING
THAT WON'T REQUIRE ANY NEW
TAXES FROM THE COMMUNITY AND TO
DO THAT THEY'LL BE HELPING MEET
ANOTHER CRITICAL NEED FOR OUR
COMMUNITY THAT WE HAVE, YOU
KNOW, A MASSIVE HOUSING
SHORTAGE.
THIS COULD BE A WIN WIN WIN.
>> SO YOU KNOW, IT SEEMS TO ME
THAT ANYBODY IN THIS COMMUNITY
WHO EARNESTLY DESIRES TO SEE A
VIBRANT COMMUNITY SPACE ON THIS
SITE SHOULD FULLY SUPPORT THIS
EFFORT.
>> YOU KNOW, THE LIBRARY IS AN
INSTITUTION.
>> IT COULD NOT JUST GET THIS
DONE BUT REALLY THEY COULD
DELIVER SOMETHING.
>> IT WOULD BE A TRUE CROWN
JEWEL FOR OUR COMMUNITY.
THANK YOU.
THANK.
>> OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS JEAN
LEVERAGE.
HI.
I'M JEAN LOVERIDGE.
I LIVE IN THE FIFTH WARD AND
I'M HERE TO VOICE MY
ENTHUSIASTIC SUPPORT FOR DC
TOO.
AND IT SEEMS TO ME THAT THIS
PROPOSAL IS A WIN IT'S A WIN
WIN FOR THE LIBRARY FOR HOUSING
IN OUR COMMUNITY, FOR
SUSTAINABILITY, FOR THE CIVIC
COMMONS AND FOR OUR TAX BASE,
FOR THE LIBRARY, THE DOWNTOWN
BRANCH OF THE ADL IS BURSTING
AT THE SEAMS AND THE EXISTING
SPACES DON'T MEET THE CURRENT
NEEDS OF THE PUBLIC AND AREN'T
WELL SUITED TO THE KINDS
PROGRAMING AND SERVICES THAT A
MODERN LIBRARY PROVIDES AND THE
CURRENT SPACE SIGNIFICANTLY
LIMITS THE ABILITY TO DELIVER
PROGRAMING TO THE LEVEL THAT
LIBRARY STAFF ARE CAPABLE
OF AND THAT OUR COMMUNITY
DESERVES.
ADDITIONALLY, MAINTAINING THE
CURRENT BUILDING HAS BECOME
INCREASINGLY EXPENSIVE AND
LIBRARY LEADERSHIP HAS
REPEATEDLY EVALUATED THE
OPTIONS FOR EXPANSION OR
RECONFIGURATION AND THERE'S NOT
REALLY A SCENARIO THAT
JUSTIFIES THE RELATIVE COSTS.
SO BUILDING A NEW MODERN
LIBRARY THAT SERVES OUR
COMMUNITIES NEEDS AT NO
INCREASED TAXPAYER EXPENSE IS
AN ENORMOUS WIN.
SECOND, HOUSING AND ORDER LIKE
MUCH OF THE U.S. IS IN A
HOUSING CRISIS DUE TO SEVERELY
UNDER BUILDING AS WELL AS
RESTRICTIVE ZONING LAWS OVER
THE PAST 40 YEARS.
AND LIKE MANY OTHER CITIES IN
THE U.S., ANN ARBOR NEEDS
HOUSING AT ALL LEVELS INCLUDING
BOTH MARKET RATE AND SUBSIDIZED
HOUSING.
THE UNDERGROUND PARKING
STRUCTURE BENEATH THE LIBRARY A
LOT IS DESIGNED TO SUPPORT UP
TO 17 STORIES AND BUILDING
HOUSING ON TOP OF A LIBRARY AS
HAS BEEN DONE RECENTLY IN
CHICAGO, NEW YORK AND ELSEWHERE
IS FRANKLY A BRILLIANT USE
OF PUBLIC SPACE AND RESOURCES
THAT WILL BRING ABOUT THE
LIVELY DENSITY AND COMMUNITY
THAT SUPPORTS EVENTS STREET
ACTIVATION AS WELL AS MEETING
AND PERFORMANCE SPACE.
ANOTHER WIN THIRD
SUSTAINABILITY.
IF ANN ARBOR WANTS TO MEET ITS
EIGHT TWO ZERO GOALS, WE NEED
TO REDUCE CARBON EMISSIONS WITH
FEWER PEOPLE DRIVING INTO TOWN
FACILITATING OPPORTUNITIES FOR
A MIXED RANGE OF PEOPLE AT
DIFFERENT INCOME LEVELS TO LIVE
DOWNTOWN SUPPORTS OUR
SUSTAINABILITY GOALS AND ALSO
HELPS MAKE ANN ARBOR A MORE
DIVERSE COMMUNITY.
IT'S A WIN FOR OUR DOWNTOWN
BUSINESSES, OUR COMMUNITY
MEMBERS AND THE ENVIRONMENT.
FOURTH, THE CIVIC COMMONS GOOD
FAITH COMMUNITY MEMBERS WHO
HAVE BEEN LONGING FOR A PUBLIC
MEETING AND EVENT SPACE WILL BE
PLEASED TO FINALLY HAVE A
PUBLIC ORGANIZATION OVERSEE AND
SUPPORT PROGRAMING IN A PUBLIC
SPACE THAT IS OPEN TO ALL RIGHT
FOR THOSE WHO SINCERELY WANT A
CIVIC COMMONS DOWNTOWN, THIS
PROJECT IS A WIN AND FIFTH IS
TAX REVENUE.
ANY PRIVATE DEVELOPMENT THAT
COAKER YEARS WILL GENERATE
ADDITIONAL TAX REVENUE FROM TWO
EXTREMELY PRIME PARCELS THAT
CURRENTLY GENERATE NONE AT ALL.
SO IN CONCLUSION I DIDN'T
REALIZE I AM DONE.
>> OK, THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
LIKE OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS MARK
SCHERBA.
MARK WILL BE JOINING US FROM
OUR SKIRBALL.
GO AHEAD.
HELLO.
HELLO THIS IS MARK SQUARESVILLE
CALLING FROM THE FIFTH WARD IN
THE SUMMER OF TWENTY EIGHTEEN I
MOVED TO ANN ARBOR FOR WORK AND
I WAS EXCITED TO VOTE IN THE
FAVOR IN FAVOR OF A BALLOT
PROPOSAL FOR A NEW CITY PARK
WHO DOESN'T LOVE PARKS.
YEARS LATER I FOUND OUT THAT
THAT BALLOT MEASURE WAS
ACTUALLY A CONCEALED EFFORT TO
BLOCK NEW HOUSING FROM BEING
BUILT OVER AN UNDERGROUND
PARKING GARAGE THAT HAD ALREADY
BEEN SPECIFICALLY REINFORCED TO
SUPPORT A PLANNED HOUSING
DEVELOPER.
THE BALLOT MEASURE BACKERS
PROMISED PRIVATE NON TAXPAYER
FUNDING TO BUILD THIS PART BUT
THAT MONEY HASN'T MATERIALIZED
AND THE CITY CAN'T AFFORD TO
MAINTAIN HUNDREDS OF PARKS.
WE ALREADY HAVE LIKE LIBERTY
PLAZA ONE BLOCK AWAY WHICH HAS
EQUAL POTENTIAL TO BECOME A
PUBLIC COMMONS.
>> MEANWHILE, THE NEARBY PUBLIC
LIBRARY NEXT DOOR HOSTS
HUNDREDS OF FREE PUBLIC EVENTS.
HOWEVER, THESE EVENTS ARE
FREQUENTLY ATTENDANCE LIMITED
BECAUSE OF A LACK OF EVENT
SPACE AND THE DETERIORATING
CONDITION OF THE BUILDING.
I WOULD LOVE TO SEE THE ANN
ARBOR PUBLIC LIBRARY EXPAND
ONTO THE FOOTPRINT OF THE
LIBRARY LOT TO ENABLE
ADDITIONAL USEFUL SPACE FOR
PROGRAMING.
IN ADDITION, THE FLOORS ABOVE
THE PUBLIC SPACE SHOULD BE
DEVELOPED INTO HOUSING TO
SUPPORT THE ARTISTS, POETS AND
LIBRARIANS WHO MAKE OUR CITY
VIBRANT WHETHER MARKET RATE OR
SUBSIDIZED THE HOUSING THAT HAS
BEEN PLANNED FOR THE SITE SINCE
THE 1990S AND WHICH IS
DESPERATELY NEEDED IN THE
CURRENT HOUSING CRISIS MUST BE
BUILT AND SOON I LOOK FORWARD
TO SEEING THE CITY WORK WITH A
LIBRARY TO BUILD CREATIVE,
EFFICIENT AND MULTI USE
STRUCTURE HERE.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS CHRISTINE
CROCKET
, MAYOR MS. CROCKETT
WILL BE JOINING US ON THE
CALL
HER THE PHONE NUMBER ENDING IN
THREE FOUR SEVEN CRESTAR SIX ON
MUTE YOUR PHONE GO AHEAD.
CAN YOU HEAR ME?
YES, WE CAN.
>> OK, MY NAME IS CHRISTINE
CROCKET.
I HAVE LIVED DOWNTOWN SINCE
NINETEEN EIGHTY IN THE FIRST
WARD AND I'VE BEEN INVOLVED
NUMEROUS ACTIVITIES TO IMPROVE
DOWNTOWN LIVING.
I'M LOOKING FORWARD TO TO THE
YOU KNOW I'M LOOKING FORWARD TO
THE PROMISE OF AN URBAN PLAZA
PARK ON THE LIBRARY LOT AS
PROMISED BY THE PASSAGE
OF PROPOSAL IN 2018.
SINCE THAT TIME VOLUNTEERS
ACROSS ANN ARBOR HAVE DONATED
HUNDREDS OF HOURS AND THOUSANDS
OF DOLLARS TO STAGING EVENTS
AND PROJECTS AT THE CENTER
OF THE CITY.
THIS INITIATIVE INCLUDED
MULTIPLE EARTH DAY CELEBRATIONS
,THE CREATION OF FOUR
SUCCESSFUL GARDEN PLOTS THAT
HAVE BEEN POPULAR BY NATIVE
PLANTS TO ATTRACT A MULTITUDE
POLLINATORS A BEAUTIFUL MURAL,
A GERMAN FESTIVAL,
INTERNATIONAL DAY OF PEACE
OBSERVANCES AND 200 BIRTHDAY
THIS YEAR THE CELEBRATION AT
LIBERTY PLAZA AND MUCH, MUCH
MORE THE BICENTENNIAL
CELEBRATION IS SPEARHEADED BY
MEMBERS OF THE LIBRARY GREEN
CONSERVANCY BOARD IN
COLLABORATION WITH DESTINATION
ANN ARBOR AND THE STATE
STREET
DISTRICT.
I WAS A SPEAKER AT THAT EVENT
PROMOTING THE BICENTENNIAL QUIZ
WHICH I HELPED TO CREATE AS
PART OF THE HISTORY
SUBCOMMITTEE BY ALL ACCOUNTS
THE CELEBRATION WAS VERY
SUCCESSFUL AND A KEY EVENT
DURING OUR BICENTENNIAL YEAR.
ALL THIS HAPPENED ONLY BECAUSE
OF SIGNIFICANT VOLUNTEER
CONTRIBUTION TO OUR CITY.
I BELIEVE IT HAS DEMONSTRATED
THE CRITICAL NEED FOR A PUBLIC
GATHERING SPACE AND GARDEN AND
THE DOWNTOWN.
KEEP IN MIND THAT THE PROPOSED
PLAN FROM THE 2020 CENSUS
SHOWED THAT THE CENTRAL AREA
OF THE CITY IS THE LEAST SERVED
BY PARKS WITH ONLY FOUR POINT
ELEVEN FOUR POINT ONE MILLION
ACRES WHERE THOUSAND RESIDENTS
COMPARE COMPARED TO THE CITY
AVERAGE OF SEVENTEEN POINT NINE
SIX FOR THE REST OF THE CITY
THIS DIFFERENTIAL HAS BECOME
MORE SIGNIFICANT WAS RECENTLY
ABOUT DEVELOPMENT AND WILL
BECOME EVEN MORE DISPARATE WITH
A DEVELOPER THAT IS BEING
PLANNED NEAR THE LIBRARY.
>> HOWEVER, THERE IS LITTLE
DOUBT THAT A NEW LIBRARY NEEDS
TO BE BUILT ON OR NEAR THE
CURRENT SITE.
I'M A LIBRARIAN.
I KNOW THAT THE CHALLENGE IS TO
CREATE A NEW LIBRARY TO
PRESERVE THE PUBLIC SPACE AND
GARDENS VOTERS HAVE VOTED FOR
AND WERE PROMISED AND IT'S PART
OF THE CITY CHARTER.
IT SEEMS CLEAR TO ME THAT SO
MANY OTHERS THAT THE
CONSERVANCY HAS EARNED A SEAT
AT THE TABLE AND CONSIDERING
THE OPTIONS FOR THE FUTURE
OF THE CENTER OF THE CITY, THIS
CONSIDERATION COMES AT A TIME
GREAT PROMISE WITH THE
OPPORTUNITY TO APPLY FOR A
MICHIGAN FUTURES GRANT.
>> THE FAIR IS JUST THE FAIR OR
JUST COURSE OF ACTION WOULD BE
TO AMEND THIS RESOLUTION TO
INCLUDE THE LIBRARY GREEN
CONSERVANCY.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH FOR YOUR
CONSIDERATION.
>> THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS LOUIS
VáZQUEZ
.
MR. VASQUEZ WILL BE JOINING US
ON ZOOME
LUIS VASQUEZ.
YES, GREETINGS IN ARBOR CITY
COUNCIL.
LUIS VASQUEZ FROM UPPER LOWER
TOWN THE 1ST WARD.
>> I'M HAPPY TO LEND MY SUPPORT
TO DC TWO I ALL THE OTHER
SUPPORTERS OF THIS RESOLUTION
HAVE ALREADY STOLEN ALL MY
TALKING POINTS BUT BRIEFLY JUST
TO SAY I DON'T THINK YOU REALLY
NEED TO AMEND THIS RESOLUTION
TONIGHT.
>> I WOULD VOTE ON IT AS IS IF
MEMBERS OF THE LIBRARY GREEN
CONSERVANCY WANT TO PARTICIPATE
THEY ALREADY HAVE A SEAT AT THE
TABLE AND CAN TAKE PART IN ANY
PROCEEDINGS MEETINGS GOING
FORWARD.
I WANT TO THANK MR. DE HONY FOR
DOING THIS OUTREACH WITH THE
ADL.
>> THIS IS A SUPERB PROPOSAL TO
USE AN UNDERUTILIZED SPACE AND
TO TAKE IT FROM A PARKING LOT
WHICH IT IS AND AND TURN IT
INTO SOMETHING REALLY NICE.
I THINK ANN ARBOR COULD CAN
LEARN A LOT FROM THE CITIES
THAT ARE ALREADY COLLABORATING
WITH THEIR PUBLIC LIBRARY TO
BUILD HOUSING OVER LIBRARIES
PLACES LIKE CLEVELAND, OHIO,
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS.
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS.
BROOKLYN, NEW YORK AND IN
MANHATTAN IN THE INWOOD
NEIGHBORHOOD THESE ARE ALL
GREAT DEVELOPMENT AND CAN HELP
IN ORDER TO ALLEVIATE SOME
OF THE LACK OF HOUSING,
ESPECIALLY AFFORDABLE HOUSING.
SO YEP, THINK BIG ON THIS AND
MOVE FORWARD.
YEP.
DON'T STOP AND LOOK BEHIND THE
AP LIBRARY GREEN CONSERVANCY
HAS HAD CLOSE TO SEVEN YEARS TO
RAISE WHAT SEVENTY THOUSAND
DOLLARS?
HEY THAT'S PRETTY PATHETIC AT
THAT RATE TEN THOUSAND A YEAR
IT WOULD TAKE THEM ABOUT ABOUT
TEN YEARS TO COME UP WITH THE
NECESSARY AMOUNT OF FUNDS TO
REALLY MAKE THE LIBRARY A LOT
INTO SOMETHING SPECIAL.
SO THANK YOU FOR YOUR TIME AND
PLEASE VOTE YES ON DC TOO.
>> THANK.
>> OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS HENRY
HERSKOVITS.
OH I'M SORRY.
MY APOLOGIES.
OUR SPEAKERS AND BANNISTER.
THANK YOU.
YES MY APOLOGIES.
>> HELLO MY NAME'S IAN
BANNISTER, FORMER WARD ONE CITY
COUNCIL MEMBER AND I'M HERE
TONIGHT TO TALK IN SUPPORT
OF DC TWO.
>> HOWEVER, ASK THAT YOU THAT
CITY COUNCIL DEFER THE DECISION
TO AMEND IT TO INCLUDE THE
LIBRARY GREEN CONSERVANCY GROUP
IN DISCUSSIONS WITH
ADMINISTRATOR DONEE AND THE
CITY AND THE AND OUR DISTRICT
LIBRARY.
THIS IS IMPORTANT BECAUSE
OTHERWISE THIS RESOLUTION IS
HIGHLIGHTING THE FAILURE OF THE
CITY TO UPHOLD THE CITY
CHARTER.
THE CITY CHARTER SAYS THAT THIS
LOT IS SUPPOSED TO BE AN URBAN
CENTRAL PARK IN PUBLIC COMMONS
IN PERPETUITY AND IT'S NOT
DESIGNED TO FAIL.
OVER 53 PERCENT OF THE VOTERS
CREATED THIS CENTER OF THE CITY
IN CONCEPT AND IT'S ONE OF THE
LAWS UPHOLDING THE CHARTER IS
ONE OF THE LAWS THAT ELECTED
LEADERS SUCH AS YOURSELF HAVE
TAKEN AN OATH TO UPHOLD.
SO WE CANNOT A CITY COUNCIL
BODY UNILATERALLY CHANGE THE
CHARTER WITHOUT A PUBLIC VOTE
SO AGAIN, PLEASE DEFER THIS TO
AMEND IT TO INCLUDE THE LIBRARY
GREEN CONSERVANCY AT THE TABLE
WITH THE LIBRARY AND THE CITY.
I'D ALSO LIKE TO TALK ABOUT
ANOTHER GROUP THAT I SUPPORT
HERE IN TOWN WHICH IS THE SAVE
AND A TWO TREES GROUP.
SO BUT THIS THIS GROUP APPLIES
TO ANY GROUP THAT IS WORRIED
ABOUT THE SIDEWALK GAP FILLING
PROJECTS AND THE TREES IN THEIR
NEIGHBORHOOD AND WHILE THE CITY
IS WORKING TO SAVE THE TREES
AND BRACKMAN BOULEVARD WHICH IS
IS GOOD IDEA, WE ALSO REQUEST
THE SAVE TWO TREES ORGANIZATION
REQUEST THAT THE CITY IMPLEMENT
TRAFFIC CALMING AT THE
SIMULTANEOUSLY THAT THEY ARE
TALKING ABOUT THE SIDEWALK
INSTALLATION SO THAT ALL THESE
CITY DEPARTMENTS WILL NOT ACT
AS SEPARATE SITE SHOWS BUT IN
CONCERT TOGETHER SO THAT WE CAN
KEEP BROCKMAN BOULEVARD THE
BEAUTIFUL STREET THAT IT IS
WITH ITS FABULOUS AND ARBITRARY
CANOPY FROM PACARD TO FREEDOM
AND AND THIS IF WE COULD
IMPLEMENT OUR TRAFFIC CALMING
AT THE SAME TIME IS OUR
SIDEWALK GAP INSTALLATIONS ARE
HAPPENING WE COULD MAKE THIS
PARTICULAR BRACKMAN BOULEVARD A
SHOWCASE FOR ALL THE OTHER
SIDEWALK GAPS AROUND THE CITY.
SO ALL OF THE RESIDENTS WHO ARE
WORRIED ABOUT THEIR SIDEWALKS
AND THEIR TREES OR THEIR
SIDEWALK GAPS IN THEIR TREES I
SUGGEST THAT YOU READ FORMER
COUNCIL MEMBER ELIZABETH
NELSON'S BLOG A TO L NOW DOT
COM OR ALSO THE PETTENGILL
NEIGHBORHOOD NEWS NOTES THESE
ORGANIZATIONS ARE INFORMING
RESIDENTS ON WHAT'S HAPPENING
HERE AND HOW WE CAN DO BETTER.
THANK THANK YOU.
>> OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS HENRY
HERSKOVITS.
>> GOOD EVENING ON JANUARY 6TH
A COUNCIL MEMBER READ A
DEFAMING PIECE ABOUT ME WRITTEN
BY THE ANTI DEFAMATION LEAGUE
WIKIPEDIA SAYS THE ADL IS A
JEWISH ORGANIZATION FOUNDED TO
COMBAT ANTI-SEMITISM WHICH IS A
FALSE TERM BECAUSE EUROPEAN
JEWS ARE NOT SEMITES.
>> HOW THE ADL ORIGINATED IS AN
INTERESTING AND INSTRUCTIVE
STORY AND SHARES COMMONALITY
WITH THE HOLOCAUST.
THE ADL WAS CREATED IN NINETEEN
THIRTEEN BECAUSE WEALTHY NEW
YORK AND CHICAGO JEWS SAW AN
OPPORTUNITY TO MANUFACTURE WHAT
THEY CALL ANTI-SEMITISM OUT
OF THIN AIR.
A JEWISH FACTORY MANAGER NAMED
LEO FRANK WAS LYNCHED BY A
WHITE MOB IN 1915 AND THE ADL
WAS CREATED BASED ON THAT FACT.
BUT WHAT DID FRANK DO TO
DESERVE SUCH A FATE?
WELL, TWO YEARS PRIOR HE
BRUTALLY RAPED AND MURDERED A
13 YEAR OLD WHITE GIRL NAMED
MARY FAGAN AND TRIED TO BLAME
HIS HEINOUS CRIME ON A BLACK
MAN.
THE JANITOR AT FRANK'S FACTORY
NAMED JIM CONNELLY.
CONNOLLY WAS THE PERFECT PATSY
IN THIS CASE.
HE HAD ONLY A FIRST GRADE
EDUCATION AND A LONG HISTORY
OF PUBLIC DRUNKENNESS AND PETTY
CRIME.
YET THE RACIST SOUTH IN THOSE
YEARS BELIEVED THE WORD OF A
BLACK MAN OVER THAT OF A
WEALTHY JEWISH BUSINESSMAN.
>> HOW COULD THAT BE?
THE ANSWER IS SUPPLIED BY
AUTHORS AT THE NATION OF ISLAM
WHO WROTE A 500 PAGE BOOK
CALLED THE FRANK CASE THE
LYNCHING OF A GUILTY MAN WAS
FRANK LYNCH BECAUSE HE WAS A
JEW.
THE BOOK EASILY
DISPROVES THAT
CLAIM, NOTING THAT FIVE MEMBERS
THE GRAND JURY WHO INVESTIGATED
THE CASE WERE JEWS AND THAT
THESE JEWS NEVER RECANTED NOR
REGRETTED THEIR DECISION.
ANTI JEWISH SENTIMENT WAS
VIRTUALLY NON-EXISTENT IN
ATLANTA AT THAT TIME FRANK WAS
FOUND GUILTY AND THE VERDICT
STOOD DESPITE EXPERT DEFENSE
LAWYERS COPIOUS SUMS SPENT AND
NUMEROUS APPEALS WHEN WORD GOT
OUT THAT GEORGIA GOVERNOR JOHN
SLATEN WAS GOING TO PARDON HIM.
>> OUTRAGE CITIZENS WHO FONDLY
REMEMBERED LITTLE MARY FAGAN
KIDNAPED FRANK FROM HIS PRISON
CELL AND HANGED HIM CARRYING
OUT THE COURT ORDER WITH
VIGILANTISM.
>> THE ADL AND THE HOLOCAUST
TWO CASH INDUSTRIES RIDDLED
WITH FALSEHOODS.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS ADAM
JUSZKIEWICZ
.
MR. JUST JOINING US ON ZOOME
ADAM DISCOVERED YOU DO HAVE A
COMMON HELLO.
>> THIS IS ADAM JUSZKIEWICZ
CALLING FROM THE FOURTH WARD.
I WASN'T EXPECTING TO FOLLOW A
HOLOCAUST IN IOWA TONIGHT BUT I
SUPPOSE THAT'S THE LUCK OF THE
DRAW AND SOMEONE HAS TO IT'S
REALLY DISGUSTING HEARING THIS
OVER AND OVER AGAIN HERE BUT
I'M NOT GOING TO LET SUCH
HATEFUL REMARKS LIMIT MY
PARTICIPATION IN PUBLIC
MEETINGS ANYWAY.
I'D LIKE TO SPEAK TONIGHT IN
SUPPORT OF DC TO A RESOLUTION
TO AUTHORIZE THE CITY
ADMINISTRATOR TO ENGAGE THE
ANTIBODIES LIBRARY REGARDING
FINALLY DOING SOMETHING WITH
THAT PARKING LOT.
LIKE MANY OTHERS WHO SPOKE
TONIGHT, I'M EXCITED ABOUT THE
POSSIBILITY OF HOUSING BEING
BUILT AT THIS LOCATION AND THE
POTENTIAL OF HAVING IT BE PART
OF ONE OF OUR COMMON SPACES OUR
LIBRARY.
THE ANN ARBOR DISTRICT LIBRARY
IS ONE OF OUR MOST BELOVED
LOCAL INSTITUTIONS.
I GREW UP GOING TO THE MAIN
LIBRARY DESPITE LIVING CLOSER
TO WEST GATE.
THIS WAS BEFORE THE EXPANSION
INTO THE OLD SUN AND SNOW
LOCATION.
THE LIBRARY BRANCHES ARE
BEAUTIFUL NOW AND MOSTLY IN NEW
AND RENOVATED SPACES BUT THE
DOWNTOWN LIBRARY HAS NOT FARED
AS WELL.
THE BUILDING IS OBSOLETE TOO
SMALL AND POORLY LAID OUT FOR
THE SERVICES OF MODERN LIBRARY
MUST PROVIDE IT.
OUR COMMUNITY DESERVES AND IT'S
SHOWING ITS AGE WITH BRICKS
FALLING OFF THE FACADE WE NEED
A NEW DOWNTOWN LIBRARY.
IT WAS A SHAME THAT VOTERS
REJECTED THE BOND ISSUE.
IT WOULD HAVE DONE THIS A FEW
YEARS AGO BUT IT HAS LEFT US
WITH AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
SOMETHING EVEN BETTER.
I WATCHED THE PRESENTATION A
WHILE BACK WHERE THE LIBRARY
DIRECTOR FLOATED THE IDEA OF A
NEW LIBRARY THAT WOULD HELP PAY
FOR ITSELF BY INCLUDING HOUSING
ABOVE.
I THINK THIS IS A GREAT IDEA.
WE ARE IN A HOUSING CRISIS AND
WE NEED MORE HOUSING THROUGHOUT
THE CITY.
ADDING HOUSING DOWNTOWN NEW
YORK TRANSIT HUB NEW JOBS IN
THE CENTER OF OUR CITY IS
IDEAL.
FURTHERMORE, IMAGINE LIVING
ABOVE A LIBRARY.
IMAGINE A CHILD GROWING UP
>> IT SURE WOULD HAVE SAVED MY
ABOVE A LIBRARY.
PARENTS SOME LATE FEES.
>> IT SURE WOULD HAVE SAVED MY
BUT ADVOCATES FOR A PARKING LOT
PARENTS SOME LATE FEES.
IN PERPETUITY ARE ASKING TO
BUT ADVOCATES FOR A PARKING LOT
DELAY THIS SO THAT LIBRARY
IN PERPETUITY ARE ASKING TO
GREEN CAN BE GIVEN A SEAT
DELAY THIS SO THAT LIBRARY
OF PRIVILEGE AT THE TABLE
GREEN CAN BE GIVEN A SEAT
OF THESE DISCUSSIONS.
OF PRIVILEGE AT THE TABLE
I DON'T THINK THAT WOULD BE
OF THESE DISCUSSIONS.
APPROPRIATE OR PRODUCTIVE.
I DON'T THINK THAT WOULD BE
WE NEED TO MOVE ON FROM THEIR
APPROPRIATE OR PRODUCTIVE.
FAILED IDEAS AND LOOK TO THE
WE NEED TO MOVE ON FROM THEIR
FUTURE.
FAILED IDEAS AND LOOK TO THE
I WATCHED SEVERAL MEETINGS
FUTURE.
OF THE COUNCIL OF THE COMMONS
I WATCHED SEVERAL MEETINGS
BEFORE THEY VOTED TO DISBAND
OF THE COUNCIL OF THE COMMONS
THEMSELVES LIBRARY GREEN
BEFORE THEY VOTED TO DISBAND
PARTICIPATION AT THOSE MEETINGS
THEMSELVES LIBRARY GREEN
WAS UNPRODUCTIVE, RAMBLING AND
PARTICIPATION AT THOSE MEETINGS
ON AT LEAST ONE OCCASION BAKED
WAS UNPRODUCTIVE, RAMBLING AND
.
ON AT LEAST ONE OCCASION BAKED
I WOULDN'T EXPECT THAT TO
.
CHANGE.
I WOULDN'T EXPECT THAT TO
FINALLY SEEING SOMETHING
CHANGE.
HAPPENING WITH THIS DESOLATE
FINALLY SEEING SOMETHING
AND UNINVITING PARKING LOT HAS
HAPPENING WITH THIS DESOLATE
BEEN A LONG TIME COMING.
AND UNINVITING PARKING LOT HAS
I TRUST THAT THE DISTRICT
BEEN A LONG TIME COMING.
LIBRARY TO BE FAR MORE
I TRUST THAT THE DISTRICT
EFFECTIVE STEWARDS OF THE
LIBRARY TO BE FAR MORE
FUTURE OF THIS PARCEL THAN THE
EFFECTIVE STEWARDS OF THE
FAILED COUNCIL THE COMMONS.
FUTURE OF THIS PARCEL THAN THE
THIS PRIME LOCATION DESERVES A
FAILED COUNCIL THE COMMONS.
TALL BUILDING THAT HOUSING
THIS PRIME LOCATION DESERVES A
EFFECTIVE GROUND FLOOR, A
TALL BUILDING THAT HOUSING
SPLASH PAD AND A LIBRARY THAT
EFFECTIVE GROUND FLOOR, A
CAN BE A CENTER OF CIVIC LIFE
SPLASH PAD AND A LIBRARY THAT
FOR GENERATIONS TO COME.
CAN BE A CENTER OF CIVIC LIFE
>> SEEING THIS ON YOUR AGENDA
FOR GENERATIONS TO COME.
TONIGHT IS A BRIGHT SPOT IN AN
>> SEEING THIS ON YOUR AGENDA
OTHERWISE DEPRESSING WEEK.
TONIGHT IS A BRIGHT SPOT IN AN
PLEASE APPROVE DC TWO TONIGHT
OTHERWISE DEPRESSING WEEK.
AS IS.
PLEASE APPROVE DC TWO TONIGHT
>> THANK YOU.
AS IS.
THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS ERIC MAYOR
THANK YOU.
ERIKA BACHUS IS JOINING US ALSO
ERICA VAN JONES, DO YOU HAVE A
COMMENT?
>> YES.
GOOD EVENING.
I'M ERIC LIVE ON STAGE.
I'M CALLING FROM THE THIRD
WARD.
I'D LIKE TO SHARE MY EXCITEMENT
ABOUT THE PROSPECT OF PUTTING A
NEW DOWNTOWN LIBRARY BRANCH ON
THE LIBRARY LANE PARKING LOT
WHILE THERE IS A LOT TO DEBATE
AND FRED OVER WITHIN OUR CITY
THE ONE ISSUE THAT BRINGS SO
MANY OF US TOGETHER IS OUR
COLLECTIVE APPRECIATION FOR A
LIBRARY.
WE ARE FORTUNATE TO HAVE A
LIBRARY STAFF AND LEADERSHIP
THAT ARE CONSTANTLY INNOVATING
AND FINDING NEW WAYS TO SERVE
THE PUBLIC BEYOND THE BOOKS,
PERIODICALS AND MEDIA THEY PUT
ON AMAZING ADVANCED CLASSES AND
WORKSHOPS.
THEY ALLOW US TO CHECK OUT
MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS, SCIENTIFIC
EXPERIMENTS, WALL ART AND
HOUSEHOLD TOOLS.
>> THEY'VE ARCHIVED OUR
COMMUNITIES HISTORY AND MADE IT
READILY AVAILABLE ONLINE.
THEY PROVIDE NAKHON TO
COMMUNITY MEMBERS SO THEY CAN
SAVE LIVES AND THEY PUT ON THIS
SUMMER GAMES AND THRALLS.
SO MANY IN OUR COMMUNITY
FAMILIES WITH CHILDREN ARE SO
GRATEFUL FOR OUR AWARD WINNING
LIBRARY KIDS ARE SO CURIOUS AND
THEY LOVE TO VISIT THE LIBRARY,
EXPLORE ITS OFFERINGS, BRING
BOOKS AND ITEMS HOME, MEET
AUTHORS AND ATTEND WORKSHOPS
YOU HAD AS MUCH AS OUR LIBRARY
DOES FOR A COMMUNITY THEY WANT
TO DO SO MUCH MORE BUT ARE HELD
BACK BY OUR CURRENT DOWNTOWN
BUILDING.
>> THERE IS A BACKLOG
OF CHALLENGING AND EXPENSIVE
MAINTENANCE THE BOARD HAS TO
CAREFULLY BUDGET FOR AND AROUND
CONSUMES FUNDS THAT COULD BE
MUCH BETTER SPENT WHEN THEY
HOLD EVENTS THEY CAN'T ALWAYS
ACCOMMODATE EVERYONE WHO'D LIKE
TO ATTEND.
THEY HAVE TO TURN PEOPLE AWAY.
THEY LIKE TO THE CAFE IN THE
LIBRARY TO MODIFY THE PLUMBING
LOAN WOULD COST OVER HALF A
MILLION DOLLARS SO THEY JUST
CAN'T DO IT.
THE CURRENT BUILDING FALLS FAR
SHORT OF WHAT OUR COMMUNITY
COULD HAVE AND WHAT WE AND OUR
COMMUNITIES CHILDREN SHOULD
HAVE.
>> SO BUILDING A NEW DOWNTOWN
LIBRARY BUILDING NECESSARY AND
WE HAVE THIS OPPORTUNITY RIGHT
NEXT DOOR AND THAT WE CAN
COMBINE THAT WITH MAKING THE
HOUSING MAKES THE PROJECT EVEN
MORE COMPELLING SINCE WE ARE
CLEARLY IN A LOCAL AND NATIONAL
HOUSING SUPPLY CRISIS COMBINING
HOUSING WITH A PUBLIC LIBRARY
IS A PROVEN CONCEPT.
A LITTLE OVER TWO YEARS AGO THE
SUNSET PARK LIBRARY OPENED IN
BROOKLYN WITH SIX STORIES
OF HOUSING ABOVE IT.
ALSO IN NEW YORK THIS LAST JUNE
THE INWOOD LIBRARY OPENED WITH
TWELVE STORIES OF HOUSING ABOVE
IT FUNDAMENTALLY A PUBLIC
LIBRARY IS A CIVIC COMMONS.
>> SO I ASK THAT YOU ALL
SUPPORT THIS RESOLUTION SO WE
CAN EXPLORE THIS PROJECTS
VIABILITY AND I HOPE TO GET IT
MOVING AND I HOPE IT WILL.
>> THIRTY SECONDS.
>> I BELIEVE THE DISTRICT
LIBRARIES LEADERSHIP AND THE
CITY ADMINISTRATOR ALONG WITH
THEIR RESPECTIVE STAFFS SHOULD
BE GIVEN THE SPACE TO WORK ON
THIS WITHOUT INTERFERENCE,
WITHOUT OBSTRUCTION ABOUT
ANYBODY ELSE INVOLVED.
I WHOLLY BELIEVE THAT THIS
PROJECT WILL HAVE A BROAD
COMMUNITY SUPPORT.
>> FINALLY I'D LIKE TO SHARE MY
GRATITUDE TO ALL THOSE WHO ARE
WORKING TOGETHER TO EXPLORE
THIS INCREDIBLE OPPORTUNITY
THAT INCLUDES LIBRARY STAFF LED
BY ELI NEWBERGER, THE LIBRARY
DISTRICT'S BOARD OF TRUSTEES
AND THE CITY COUNCIL MEMBERS
WHO RESPONSE TIMES RESOLUTE.
>> THANK YOU ALL.
THANK YOU.
>> OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS TOM
STOLLBERG.
I AM MR. DAHLBERG WILL BE
JOINING US ON SOON
.
MR STOLLBERG PHONE NUMBER
ENERGON FIVE THREE FOUR
LOOKAHEAD GOOD.
THIS IS TOM STALBERG CALLING
FROM OUR TOWN IN ANN ARBOR.
I HAD THE GREAT PRIVILEGE THIS
PAST YEAR WORKING ON THE CITY'S
BICENTENNIAL TO BE WORKING WITH
THE ANN ARBOR DISTRICT LIBRARY.
>> THEY WERE WONDERFUL PARTNER
FOR OUR SMART TOURISTS THAT WE
DEVELOPED THE SELF GUIDED
SMARTPHONE HISTORY AND
ARCHITECTURE TOURS THAT RESIDE
ON THE ANN ARBOR DISTRICT
LIBRARY WEBSITE.
>> THEY WERE AN INVALUABLE
PARTNER ALSO IF PEOPLE HAVE NOT
FOUND IT, IF YOU GO ON THE
LIBRARY'S WEBSITE THE ANN ARBOR
200 PROJECT A ADL THAT OR ANN
ARBOR 200 PROBABLY A FLASH IN
THERE SORRY HAS 200 ENTRIES
OF VARIOUS THINGS THAT WERE
CREATED LAST YEAR.
>> IT'S UP THERE.
THERE'S PLENTY OF TIME FOR YOU
TO BROWSE THROUGH IT.
GO DOWN THAT RABBIT HOLE.
IT'S PRETTY INCREDIBLE.
THERE'S HISTORY, THERE'S
PICTURES, THERE'S MAPS, THERE'S
VIDEOS, THERE'S POETRY, ALL
KINDS OF DIFFERENT PROJECTS.
>> INCREDIBLY CREATIVE AND THAT
WAS DONE BY THE LIBRARY BY THE
DISTRICT LIBRARY STAFF AND
CONTRIBUTORS GALLERIES YOURSELF
ARE DOING THIS YEAR TO
CELEBRATE LAST YEAR'S
BICENTENNIAL BY LEARNING A LOT
MORE ABOUT ANN ARBOR.
SO I'D BE VERY HAPPY TO SEE THE
ANN ARBOR DISTRICT LIBRARY
REDEVELOPED ITS PROPERTY,
REDEVELOPED A NEW LIBRARY
INCLUDE HOUSING THAT'S SUPER
AND INCLUDE WHAT OUR CHARTER
CALLS FOR BY WORKING WITH THE
CITY TO YOU KNOW, IN THE
CHARTER LANGUAGE IT DOES
MENTION THE WORD DEVELOPMENT
AND THAT CITY COUNCIL ALTHOUGH
YOU TOOK AN OATH TO FAITHFULLY
DISCHARGE THE DUTIES OF THE
OFFICES OF CITY COUNCIL OR
MAYOR OF THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR
,THE BEST OF YOUR ABILITY
WHICH INCLUDES FOLLOWING THE
CHARTER AND IT SAYS IN THE WORD
DEVELOP.
>> SO WE HAVEN'T DONE YET BUT
YOU ALL HAVE THE WONDERFUL
OPPORTUNITY NOW WITH THIS
PARTNER TO PROCEED WITH
IMPLEMENTING THE CHARTER THAT
THE CITIZENS PASSED AND VOTED
FOR.
>> I WOULD ALSO LIKE YOU TO SEE
TO SEE THE INCLUSION OF LIBRARY
GREEN
CONSERVANCY IN THOSE
DISCUSSIONS AND AN OFFICIAL
CAPACITY
.
THE CITIZENS DID VOTE FOR THIS.
IT IS IN OUR CHARTER THERE WAS
A WHOLE SYSTEM SET UP IN THE
LIBRARY AGREEING 7C IF YOU
INCLUDE THOSE IN THESE
CONVERSATIONS WE KNOW WE CAN
TAKE THE PARTICIPATION OF CITY
COUNCIL SERIOUSLY AND MOVING
FORWARD WITH A PARTNERSHIP IN
DISCUSSIONS TO MOVE THIS
FORWARD IT'D BE WONDERFUL TO
END THE DIVISIVE BY INCLUDING
THE LIBRARY GREEN CONSERVANCY
AS YOU MOVE FORWARD.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
I'LL SEE THE REST OF MY TIME.
>> OTHERS CAN STILL SPEAK.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS JEFF
HOLTZMANN.
HELLO.
THANK YOU FOR THE OPPORTUNITY
TO SPEAK.
>> I'M HERE TO GIVE MY
PERSPECTIVE ON THE SIDEWALK
INITIATIVE AS IT RELATES TO THE
BROCKMANN NEIGHBORHOOD.
ONE OF THE MAIN REASONS WE
MOVED THERE TWELVE YEARS AGO IS
THE STUNNINGLY GORGEOUS CASCADE
OF MATURE TREES THAT WINES FROM
STADIUM DOWN TO PACARD.
IT IS LITERALLY ONE OF THE
PRETTIEST NEIGHBORHOODS IN ANN
ARBOR.
UPON LEARNING THAT BRACKMAN WAS
TO BE TARGETED, WE BECAME
CONCERNED AS WE HAD SEEN WHAT
HAPPENED ON A LITTLE OFFSHOOT
OF BROCKMANN WINCHELL DRIVE
WHERE 18 MATURE TREES WERE
REMOVED, GIVING IT THE LOOK
OF A BARE NEW SUBURBAN
DEVELOPMENT KIND OF URBAN STRIP
MINING LAST FALL WE FORMED A
CITIZEN'S INITIATIVE AND
QUICKLY CAME TO CONSENSUS ABOUT
WHAT WE WANTED TO HAPPEN WHICH
WAS TO PRESERVE THE TREES ALONG
WITH SIDEWALK INSTALLATION.
TREES AND SIDEWALKS CAN COEXIST
.
RECENTLY THE CITY ISSUED A
STATEMENT THAT TREES COULD BE
PRESERVED SIMPLY BY BUILDING
SIDEWALKS IN THE RIGHT OF WAY.
SETBACKS OF OUR PROPERTIES.
HOWEVER, A LITTLE RESEARCH
SHOWS THAT THIS IS INCORRECT.
THE CITY'S OWN DEVELOPMENT
GUIDELINES SPECIFY A ZONE
OF EXCLUSION AROUND LANDMARKED
TREES AMOUNTING TO ONE FOOT FOR
EVERY INCH OF TREE DIAMETER FOR
MANY OF OUR TREES.
THIS AMOUNTS TO A RADIUS OF 20
25 FEET WHICH IS KNOWN AS THE
CRITICAL ROOT ZONE.
THE TREES IN QUESTION EXIST
WITHIN THE SETBACK AND SO DOES
THE CRITICAL ROOT ZONE.
SO THE SIDEWALKS INSTALLED IN
THE SETBACK WOULD OVERLAY THE
CRITICAL ROOT ZONE AND DAMAGE
OR DESTROY OUR TREES.
LOSS OF THIS CANOPY WOULD HAVE
DETRIMENTAL ECOLOGICAL EFFECTS
NEGATIVELY IMPACTING OUR
NEIGHBORS STRATEGIC EIGHT TO
ZERO PLAN.
THE ALTERNATIVE WOULD BE TO
INSTALL SIDEWALKS ON THE STREET
SIDE OF THE TREES.
THIS WOULD ALSO BE DESIRABLE
FOR TRAFFIC CALMING.
AT MAYOR TAYLOR'S SUGGESTION WE
HAVE SUBMITTED A PETITION
SIGNED BY 90 PERCENT OF THE
AFFECTED PROPERTY OWNERS
REQUESTING TRAFFIC CALMING.
WE'VE BEEN TOLD THAT INSTALLING
SIDEWALKS ON PAVEMENT IS MORE
EXPENSIVE AND THE TRAFFIC
CALMING AND SIDEWALK PROGRAMS
ARE INDEPENDENT.
OUR CONCERN IS NOT WITH CITY
BUDGET OR INTERNAL OPERATIONS.
WE JUST WANT THE JOB DONE RIGHT
WITH PROPER PLANNING
HOLISTICALLY.
WE STARTED OFF AS A GROUP
OF HALF A DOZEN PROPERTY OWNERS
BUT INTEREST FROM WARDS ACROSS
THE CITY ALLOWED US TO SUBMIT A
PETITION WITH OVER 200 NAMES
QUESTIONING THE CURRENT PROCESS
.
>> NO ONE WANTS WHAT HAPPENED
ON WINTEL TO HAPPEN ON THEIR
STREET WITH THE NEW MAYOR
TAYLOR AND EACH COUNCIL MEMBER
SUPPORT OUR EFFORTS TO SAVE OUR
TREES, NOT CONTRAVENE EIGHT TO
ZERO.
WE WANT THE ENGINEERING
DEPARTMENTS TO TAKE THEIR TIME,
COLLABORATE, PLAN THIS OUT
HOLISTICALLY, BE A MODEL FOR
FUTURE ENDEAVORS AND NOT STRIP
MINE OUR STREETS.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK THANK YOU.
>> WE HAVE HAD 15 SPEAKERS I'M
SUPPOSED TO KEEP TRACK OF HOW
LONG THE SPEAKERS ARE GOING AND
I CONFESS THAT I ONLY STARTED
IN THE MIDDLE AND SO I'LL GIVE
THE SPEAKER WHO MIGHT BE IN
UNDER THE 45 MINUTES THERE
MIGHT BE A LITTLE OVER THE
BENEFIT OF DOUBT IN THIS
CONTEXT.
>> THEREFORE OUR NEXT SPEAKER
IS SEAN SMITH.
MR. SMITH.
THANKS EVERYONE.
GO AHEAD.
I'M SORRY.
THANKS.
I'LL TRY THE OTHER TIME TO GET
EVERYONE OUT.
MY NAME IS SEAN SMITH.
I LIVE ON BROCKMANN BOULEVARD
WITH JEFF AND I ECHO WHAT HE
AND ANN BANNISTER SAID EARLIER.
I'M A PARENT OF YOUNG KIDS.
I'M A PHYSICIAN WHO SPECIALIZES
IN PHYSICAL MEDICINE AND
REHABILITATION MEANING I TREAT
PEOPLE WHO LIVE WITH
DISABILITIES AND SO I
COMPLETELY UNDERSTAND SAFETY
AND ACCESSIBILITY AND ITS
IMPORTANCE.
BUT ECHOING WHAT JEFF AND I
SAID IF WE EITHER BUILD A
SIDEWALK INSET FROM THESE LARGE
LEGACY TREES IT'S GOING TO
DISRUPT THE TREES AND THEIR
CRITICAL ROOT ZONE OR IT'S
GOING TO BE LESS ACCESSIBLE
WHICH IS DEFEATING THE PURPOSE
OF THE SIDEWALKS FOR MANY.
IN ADDITION, IF WE BUILD A
SIDEWALK AND WE DON'T ALSO
CONSIDER THE TRAFFIC CALMING
ASPECT WHAT I THINK IS ONE
OF THE FASTEST THROUGHPUTS
NEIGHBORHOOD STREETS IN ANN
ARBOR, I THINK OUR BENEFIT TO
SAFETY GO DOWN CONSIDERABLY.
SO MY REQUEST TO THE COUNCIL IS
TO STRONGLY CONSIDER OUR
PETITION FOR SAFETY CALMING AND
BUMPING OUT THE SIDEWALK ON THE
STREET SIDE OF THESE TREES TO
PRESERVE THEIR CRITICAL ROOT
ZONE AND TO SLOW DOWN TRAFFIC.
BROCKMANN IS A WIDE STREET.
IT WAS WIDENED FOR VESTIGIAL
REASONS OF PREVIOUSLY NEEDING
TO BE A THOROUGHFARE FOR FIRE
ENGINES.
THAT'S NO LONGER THE CASE SO WE
CAN HANDLE NARROWING THE STREET
A LITTLE BIT AND I THINK WE CAN
DO IT IN A WAY THAT DOES
JUSTICE TO THE BEAUTIFUL TREE
LINED STREETS.
I'LL SAY, YOU KNOW, TIMES LIKE
THIS THAT YOU I URGE THE
COUNCIL TO NOT KIND OF REFLECT
THE WORST STEREOTYPES
OF DEMOCRATIC GOVERNMENT
OF WHICH I SUPPORT BUT WE'RE IN
A PRETTY BAD DARK TIME RIGHT
NOW.
SO IF THERE'S A WAY THAT Y'ALL
CAN GET THE SIDEWALK FOLKS TO
TALK TO THE STREET AND THE
TRAFFIC CALMING FOLKS AND THE
ARBORISTS AND EVERYONE TO
RESPECT AND ARBOR'S
COVERED ABOUT TREES, I THINK
THAT WOULD BE WONDERFUL.
IT'LL TAKE A LITTLE BIT
OF EXTRA WORK AND QUITE FRANKLY
A LITTLE BIT OF EXTRA MONEY BUT
IT'S AND SAID TO SERVE AS A
BEACON FOR FUTURE SIDEWALK THAT
PROJECTS AND ALSO BE QUITE
FRANKLY A WIN WIN.
I UNDERSTAND THAT IT'S PROBABLY
MORE BUDGET FOR THIS GAP
SIDEWALK THAN YOU WOULD WANT
BUT Y'ALL SELECTED PROBABLY THE
MOST BEAUTIFUL TREE LINED
STREET IN ALL THREE TOWN USA SO
IT'S KIND OF A LITTLE BIT ON.
>> SO PLEASE CONSIDER THIS I
APPRECIATE YOU LISTENING TO US
ALL THE TIME AND I REALLY DO
THANK YOU FOR THANKSGIVING
JOKES ASIDE BUT PLEASE WE
STRONGLY CONSIDER THE TRAFFIC
CALMING BUILDING THE SIDEWALKS
INSET FROM THE TREE.
>> EVERYBODY WINS IN THAT
SCENARIO.
THANKS.
THANK YOU.
>> ARE THERE COMMUNICATIONS
TODAY FROM COUNCIL COUNCIL
NERDISH.
>> THANK YOU MAYOR.
I JUST WANT TO START BY SAYING
THAT I DON'T THINK ANYONE
WEALTHY OR NOT JEWISH OR NOT
NEEDS TO MANUFACTURE
ANTI-SEMITISM OUT OF THIN AIR.
YOU CAN COME TO CITY COUNCIL
AND SEE IT PERFORMED WITH CLOCK
LIKE REGULARITY BUT THAT IS NOT
WHAT I WANTED TO TALK ABOUT
SIMPLY WHAT SHOULDN'T GO
WITHOUT COMMENT.
I WANTED TO CALL YOUR ATTENTION
TO E ONE ON THE AGENDA.
>> THIS IS A REPORT WE DON'T
USUALLY TALK ABOUT THESE WON'T
BE DEBATED.
IT'S NOT TO BE VOTED ON.
IT'S THE WASHTENAW COUNTY GOP'S
ANALYSIS FOR THE HOMELESS
RESPONSE SYSTEM AND SOME
HIGHLIGHTS FROM THIS REPORT ARE
THAT RECORD NUMBERS OF PEOPLE
ARE EXPERIENCING HOMELESS
NATIONWIDE.
THERE IS THE THERE'S A RECORDED
NUMBER OF 650000 PEOPLE
EXPERIENCING HOMELESSNESS.
>> THIS IS PROBABLY LESS FEWER
I MEAN THERE ARE MORE PEOPLE
THAN GET RECORDED IS I MEAN TO
SAY THIS IS THE HIGHEST NUMBER
SINCE RECORD KEEPING BEGAN IN
2007.
HOUSEHOLDS OF COLOR ARE
DISPROPORTIONATELY AFFECTED BY
HOMELESSNESS IN WASHTENAW
COUNTY IN OUR WHERE WE ARE 40
TO 60 PERCENT OF PEOPLE
EXPERIENCING HOMELESSNESS HAVE
A JOB AND WHAT THAT TELLS US IS
THAT THEIR WAGES ARE NOT
KEEPING UP WITH THE COST
OF HOUSING IN THE COUNTY WHICH
CONTINUES TO RISE.
SO IT IS IMPERATIVE THAT WE
CONTINUE TO BUILD HOUSING AS
FAST AS WE CAN.
BUT THERE IS ALSO AND I WANTED
TO SAY THAT A VAST MAJORITY
OF PEOPLE EXPERIENCING
HOMELESSNESS IN WASHINGTON
COUNTY ARE FAMILIES WITH
CHILDREN.
SO THIS MAKES IT ALL THE MORE
URGENT BECAUSE IT IS A TERRIBLE
SETBACK TO A CHILD PROBABLY
THAT LASTS THEIR LIFE TO GROW
UP IN CHRONIC HOMELESSNESS.
>> BUT THERE'S A REALLY BRIGHT
SIDE HERE WHICH IS THAT
INCREASED RESOURCES FOR
VETERANS EXPERIENCING
HOMELESSNESS HAVE REDUCED
INSTANCES OF HOMELESSNESS AMONG
THEM TOO RARE AND BRIEF WHICH
COUNTS AS A TECHNICAL ZERO.
>> I CAN'T REMEMBER WHAT THE
WHAT THE WORD IS THERE BUT IT
VINDICATES AN APPROACH THAT
FOCUSES ON DIVERSION,
PREVENTION AND HOUSING RATHER
THAN PUTTING PEOPLE UP IN
HOTELS.
AND SO THIS IS WHAT WE NEED TO
BE FUNDING.
WE HAVE A FOUR POINT EIGHT
DOLLARS MILLION GAP THE CITY
OF ANN ARBOR AND THE ANN ARBOR
HOUSING COMMISSION, THE CITY
OF ANN ARBOR FROM ITS GENERAL
FUND AND THE ANN ARBOR HOUSING
COMMISSION FROM ITS FUNDS AND
THE MILLAGE THAT HOUSING
VILLAGE HAVE CONTRIBUTED 40
WELL THEY'VE CONTRIBUTED 14
PERCENT TO 14 PERCENT OF THE 27
MILLION DOLLARS THAT THAT
WASHTENAW COUNTY HAS.
>> WE DO HAVE A FOUR POINT
EIGHT DOLLARS MILLION GAP.
I HOPE THAT WE ARE ABLE TO HELP
WITH THAT.
BUT I DID WANT TO NOTE THAT THE
CITY DOES YES.
YES.
EXERT ITSELF IN THIS AREA.
>> COUNCILMAN CORNELL CAN'T
BELIEVE THAT I HAVE TO START MY
COMMENTS SAYING THAT
ANTI-SEMITISM AND HOLOCAUST
DENIAL IS WRONG.
>> I'M NOT GOING TO BE ANY
SURPRISED MY FURTHER COMMENTS
ARE GOING
TO BE DEDICATED TO
DRAWING THE PUBLIC'S ATTENTION
TO FUN STUFF GOING ON DOWNTOWN
OPPORTUNITIES TO SUPPORT OUR
MAIN STREET BUSINESSES AND
REALLY MAKE THE BRING JOYED
YEAR WINTER.
QUICK REMINDER THAT RESTAURANT
WEEK A LOT OF RESTAURANTS
DOWNTOWN IN THE CITY ARE
OFFERING REALLY DISCOUNTED
MEALS AS A CHANCE TO BRING IN
AND TO HELP THEM DURING THIS
COLD WINTER WHICH IS GENERALLY
THEIR SLOWEST TIME.
RESTAURANT WEEK ENDS THIS WEEK
ON THE 24TH AND I WANTED TO
CALL TO PEOPLE'S ATTENTION THAT
ANN ARBOR WILL HAVE ITS FIFTH
ANNUAL GALENTINE'S DAY AND
FEBRUARY 8TH.
FANS OF PARKS AND REC WILL KNOW
IT IS THE BEST DAY OF THE YEAR
BECAUSE FRIENDS GATHER TO
UPLIFT EACH OTHER WHICH IS
WONDERFUL AND I THINK WE COULD
ALL USE SOME OF THAT.
YOU CAN HEAD INTO ANY OF THE
BUSINESSES DOWNTOWN.
THERE WILL BE DEALS IN-STORE
EVENTS, RESTAURANTS WILL BE
OFFERING SPECIALS.
THE REALLY COOL THING IS THIS
YEAR YOU WILL GET A PASSPORT IN
EVERY STEP THAT YOU MAKE YOU
CAN COLLECT A STICKER NO
PURCHASE NECESSARY AND IF YOU
FILL OUT YOUR ENTIRE PASSPORT
WHICH I PROMISE WILL NOT BE
HARD TO DO IN A QUICK AMOUNT
OF TIME IN CASE IT'S STILL
CALLED ON FEBRUARY 8TH YOU'LL
BE ENTERED INTO A DRAWING FOR
GIFT CARDS AND OTHER GIVEAWAYS
AND INCLUDING A GRAND PRIZE
THAT A LOT OF THE BUSINESSES
DOWNTOWN ARE CONTRIBUTING TO.
SO IT'LL BE A REALLY FUN DAY TO
GET OUT AND SUPPORT THE
BUSINESSES.
AND THEN FINALLY I WANTED TO
REMIND PEOPLE THAT THE DOG PARK
THAT'S PARK IS GETTING SO MUCH
BUZZ.
I'M SO GRATEFUL THAT OUR PARKS
DEPARTMENT DEDICATED THAT SPACE
TO IT.
THERE WERE SOME EARLY HICCUPS
WITH LIGHTING AND HOURS AND
PARKING.
THOSE HAVE BEEN SORTED OUT.
I WANT TO THANK CITY STAFF FOR
THEIR PROFESSIONALISM AND
INTENTION AND ATTENTION TO
THAT.
AND IF YOU HAVEN'T BEEN THERE,
CHECK IT OUT.
AND IF YOU DO HAVE HAVE BEEN
THERE AND YOU HAVE FEEDBACK TO
SHARE, I'D BE WELCOME TO
RECEIVE IT.
>> FEEL FREE TO EMAIL ME AT OUR
COUNCIL ADDRESS.
THANK COUNCIL MEMBER.
THANK YOU MAYOR.
SO IN LIGHT OF ANTI-SEMITIC
COMMENTS MADE HERE TONIGHT BUT
MORE IMPORTANTLY IN LIGHT OF A
RECENT PRESIDENTIAL EXECUTIVE
ORDER SUSPENDING REFUGEE
RESETTLEMENT IN THE U.S., I'M
GOING TO BE MAKING A DONATION
TO JEWISH FAMILY SERVICES AND
IF THE COMMUNITY IS NOT AWARE
OR PARTS OF THE COMMUNITY ARE
NOT AWARE, JEFFS IS THE SOLE
REFUGEE RESETTLEMENT AGENCY IN
THE AREA AND SO THEREFORE THEY
PLAY A CRUCIAL ROLE IN
WELCOMING REFUGEES FROM ALL
OVER AND IMMIGRANTS INTO OUR
COMMUNITY.
THEY PROVIDE THEM WITH THE
SUPPORT THEY NEED TO REBUILD
THEIR LIVES EVERYTHING FROM
RESETTLEMENT ASSISTANCE TO
PROGRAMS THAT HELP THEM FEEL
HERE AT HOME AT HOME HERE IN
ANN ARBOR SUPPORTING OUR WORK
IS A MEANINGFUL WAY TO
COMBAT HATE AND DIVISION IN OUR
COMMUNITY AND MAKE OUR
COMMUNITY A WELCOMING PLACE FOR
AND I ENCOURAGE ANYONE WHO CAN
DO SO TO JOIN ME AND CONSIDER
DONATING TO THEM AS WELL.
>> THANK YOU, COUNCILOR
HARRISON.
THANK YOU, MAYOR.
I'D LIKE TO CALL THE FOLKS
ATTENTION A FILM SCREENING A
FILM SCREENING OF A LETTER TO
THE WEST SIDE THE STORY OF AN
HISTORIC BLACK NEIGHBORHOOD AND
CELEBRATION OF BLACK HISTORY
MONTH IN FEBRUARY THE ANN ARBOR
HOUSING COMMISSION INVITES YOU
TO JOURNEY THROUGH THE HEART
OF NPR'S WEST SIDE AND
HISTORICAL BLACK COMMUNITY
WHOSE STORIES OF RESILIENCE,
INNOVATION AND UNITY HELPED TO
SHAPE THE CITY WE KNOW TODAY
THROUGH THIS POWERFUL
DOCUMENTARY A LETTER TO THE
WEST SIDE BY CAMERAMAN DONALD
OF BRACO WILL PAY TRIBUTE TO
THE TRAILBLAZERS AND CELEBRATE
THE VIBRANCY OF A ONCE THRIVING
BLACK LOCAL BUSINESS.
BUSINESSES AND SCHOOLS AND SHED
LIGHT ON THE SYSTEMIC CHANGES
THAT LED TO THE LOSS OF THE
NEIGHBORHOOD MORE THAN A FILM.
THIS IS A TESTAMENT TO THE
STRENGTH OF THE PEOPLE WHO
BUILT THE WEST SIDE AND A
PLATFORM TO AMPLIFY THE VOICES
OF THOSE WHOSE STORIES HAVE
GONE UNTOLD.
THESE STORIES CONTINUE TO SHAPE
OUR CITY THROUGH THE DUNNED
DUNBAR TOWER PROJECT WHERE A
MULTIGENERATIONAL COMMUNITY
LEADERSHIP COUNCIL OF FORMER
AND CURRENT BLACK RESIDENTS
OF THE NEIGHBORHOOD ARE WORKING
TO CREATE A SPACE THAT HONORS
THE HISTORIC HISTORY OF THE
WEST SIDE AND PROVIDES
AFFORDABLE HOUSING FOR LOW
INCOME RESIDENTS.
SO THE SCREENING WILL BE AT THE
MICHIGAN THEATER ON SATURDAY,
FEBRUARY 8TH DOORS OPEN AT FIVE
O'CLOCK AND THE FILM BEGINS AT
6:00.
THIS ADMISSION IS FREE BUT THE
SEATING IS LIMITED AND YOU CAN
RSVP YOU CAN GO TO THE HOUSING
COMMISSION ON FACEBOOK TO RSVP
TO RESERVE YOUR SEAT.
>> SO DO THAT BECAUSE LIKE I
SAID, SEATING IS LIMITED.
THANK YOU.
>> COUNCIL MEMBER MALIK.
GOOD EVENING.
GOOD EVENING EVERYBODY.
COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON, I WANT
TO THANK EVERYONE THAT WAS ABLE
TO COME OUT TO OUR LISTENING
SESSION A FEW WEEKS AGO WE
HOSTED OUR LISTENING SESSION
COFFEE HOUR ON JANUARY 12TH AND
WARD TWO WHILE WE HAD PLANNED
THE SESSION TO LAST ONE HOUR WE
ENDED UP HOLDING SESSION FOR
OVER TWO HOURS TO ACCOMMODATE
CONVERSATION FROM OVER TWENTY
RESIDENTS THAT TOOK THE TIME TO
COME OUT AND SEE US.
>> SO SPEAKING FOR BOTH MYSELF
AND COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON AND
SPECIFICALLY I THINK I CAN SAY
THAT TONIGHT SINCE WE'RE
SHARING A MICROPHONE WE WERE
THRILLED WITH THE TURNOUT AND
THE GREAT CONVERSATION LOOKING
FORWARD TO NEXT MONTH WE WILL
BE HOSTING ANOTHER LISTENING
SESSION ON SUNDAY FEBRUARY
TWENTY THIRD FROM THREE TO FOUR
P.M. THIS TIME WE WILL HAVE A
SLIGHTLY LARGER SPACE AT
TREYVAUD LIBRARY AND WE HOPE TO
SEE EVERYONE THERE.
>> THANK YOU COUNCIL MEMBER A
DENHA.
>> THANK YOU MAYOR.
I THINK THIS WEEK DID NOT START
OUT GREAT.
WE HAVE YOU KNOW WE HAVE THE
INAUGURATION OF THE FORMER
PRESIDENT RETURNING AND AND THE
SPEECH WAS ONE THAT WAS FOR
ANYONE WHO LISTENED INCREDIBLY
SHOCKING.
IT WAS CERTAINLY HISTORIC IN
ITS DIVISION AND HISTORICAL
REVISIONISM AND HATRED, WHICH
IS WHY I THINK IT IS
DISAPPOINTING THAT WE CONTINUE
TO SEE THAT ON DISPLAY HERE AT
OUR COUNCIL MEETINGS IN THE
REGULAR HISTORICAL REVISIONISM
AND ANTISEMITISM FROM ONE
PARTICULAR INDIVIDUAL WHO COMES
TO THESE MEETINGS.
>> I THINK IT'S REALLY
IMPORTANT FOR US TO CONTINUE TO
SPEAK OUT AND CONDEMN THAT TYPE
OF BEHAVIOR IN THAT TYPE
OF HATE SPEECH BECAUSE ANN
ARBOR NEEDS TO BE A COMMUNITY
OVER THE NEXT FOUR YEARS WHERE
WE WELCOME OUR NEIGHBORS, WHERE
WE ACCEPT ONE ANOTHER, WHERE WE
EMBRACE ONE ANOTHER AND NOT
WHERE WE REWRITE HISTORY TO
OTHER AND TO SPREAD HATE AND SO
I JOIN IN THE CHORUS
OF CONDEMNATION OF THIS
CONTINUING SPEECH AT OUR
MEETINGS AND WILL AGAIN WHILE I
DON'T EXPECT ANY CHANGE IN
BEHAVIOR, HOPE THAT THIS
INDIVIDUAL WILL CEASE THIS
HARMFUL ACTIVITY.
>> I ALSO WANT TO EXPRESS MY
GRATITUDE TO WARD THREE
RESIDENTS WHO CAME TO SPEAK OUT
TONIGHT AT PUBLIC COMMENT.
>> YOU KNOW, WE'RE CONTINUING
TO TO LOOK FORWARD TO PLAN FOR
BRACKMAN AND I LOOK FORWARD TO
CONTINUING TO ENGAGE WITH YOU
THROUGHOUT THAT PROCESS AND IN
THAT RESPECT, COUNCIL MEMBER
GHAZI EDWYN AND I ANOTHER
REMINDER THAT WE'RE WE WILL BE
HOSTING OUR NEXT WARD THREE
COFFEE OUR ON SATURDAY JANUARY
25TH THIS COMING SATURDAY AT 10
AM YORK UNPACKAGED WILL BE
JOINED BY AN HOUR OR AN HOUR
FIRE CHIEF MIKE KENNEDY.
>> AND SO WE WELCOME ALL TO
JOIN US.
THANKS.
>> COUNCIL MEMBER BRAKE'S THANK
YOU.
AS OTHERS HAVE MENTIONED, THE
THE DIALOG AT THE NATIONAL
LEVEL IS CHILLING AS IS
OCCASIONALLY HERE IN OUR OWN
ROOM AND AS IS THE WEATHER
OUTSIDE.
SO I'M GOING TO PIVOT TO
SOMETHING MORE FUN AS THAT I
WILL CONTINUE TO MENTION FOR
THE NEXT COUPLE OF MEETINGS
PERHAPS TODAY IS THE SECOND DAY
OF THE CONQUER THE COLD GET
DOWNTOWN METER CHALLENGE.
>> MY COLLEAGUE ON MY LEFT AND
RIGHT HAVE BOTH SADLY JOINED
FORCES IN WARD FIVE FOR AN HOUR
FOR THE GOOD I SHOULD SAY NOT
SADLY FOR THE GOOD.
WE ARE JOINING FORCES AND THEY
COMMUTED TOGETHER HERE TODAY.
I BIKED.
THIS IS EVIDENCE THAT IT CAN BE
DONE EVEN IN CHILLY WEATHER BUT
MANY OPTIONS FOR US TO CHOOSE
FROM AND IT'S A GOOD WAY FOR US
TO BE MODELING TO THE COMMUNITY
SORT OF OUR OUR COMMITMENT TO
OUR TRANSPORTATION GOALS,
COMMITMENT TO OUR CLIMATE
ACTION GOALS AND SO ENCOURAGE
EVERY BODY TO THINK ABOUT
SETTING UP A WARD TEAM ON GET
DOWNTOWN DOUG, IT IS A LITTLE
BIT CHALLENGING THE INTERFACE
OF THOSE WHO ARE INTERESTED IN
JOINING TEAMS.
DO YOU NEED TO EMAIL US?
I THINK IT COMES MEMBER AKMAN
IS THE TEAM CAPTAIN FOR WARD
FOUR ON THE TEAM CAPTAIN THIS
YEAR WE'RE CHANGING WE'RE
ALTERNATING FROM WARD FIVE.
YOU CAN JUST EMAIL US AND SAY
YOU WANT TO JOIN THE TEAM AFTER
YOU'VE LOGGED ON TO GET
DOWNTOWN MORGAN AND SIGNED UP
AND WE WILL HAVE A FRIENDLY
CHALLENGE THIS MONTH TO SEE WHO
CAN REDUCE THEIR THEIR CAR
TRIPS AND BIKE WALK USE TRANSIT
,TELECOMMUTE, CARPOOL AND YOU
HAVE SOME FUN WHILE IT'S A
LITTLE COLD OUTSIDE FURTHER
COMMUNICATION FROM COUNCIL, I'D
LIKE TO REQUEST CONFIRMATION
THE FOLLOWING APPOINTMENTS ARE
PRESENTED TO CITY COUNCIL ON
JANUARY SIX, 2025 TO THE
TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION
RACHEL JACOBSSON APRIL CONWAY
MAY HAVE A MOTION PLEASE MOVE
BY COUNCIL MEMBER CORNELL
SECOND BY COUNCILOR IA
DISCUSSION OR FAVOR POST.
>> IT'S APPROVED WOULD ALSO
LIKE TO REQUEST RATHER
RECOMMEND THE FOLLOWING
NOMINATIONS FOR YOUR
CONSIDERATION TO THE DOWNTOWN
DEVELOPMENT AREA RESIDENT
CONSULTANCY COUNCIL JOHN SPERT
AND JOSEPH AKARI.
WE HAVE BEFORE US THE CONSENT
AGENDA MOVE A MOTION TO APPROVE
THE CONSENT AGENDA MOVE BY
COUNCILOR SECONDED BY COUNCIL
MEMBER WATSON DISCUSSION OF THE
CONSENT AGENDA COUNCIL MEMBER
DENHA THANK YOU MAYOR.
I JUST WANTED TO NOTE THE FIVE
WHICH IS A RESOLUTION TO
APPOINT JORDAN ROBERTS AS THE
NEXT
CITY OF ANN ARBOR PUBLIC
SERVICES AREA ADMINISTRATOR
CONGRATULATE MR DE HONY ON A
SUCCESSFUL SEARCH AND FOR
RECRUITING SOMEONE WHO APPEARS
TO BE A TOP NOTCH CANDIDATE AND
ALSO JUST USE THIS AS AN
OPPORTUNITY TO EXPRESS MY
GRATITUDE TO SUE MCCORMACK FOR
SERVING IN AN INTERIM CAPACITY.
I THINK THE RESIDENTS THAT I
HAVE ENGAGED WITH WHO WHO HAVE
WORKED DIRECTLY WITH HER HAVE
EXPRESSED EXTREME GRATITUDE FOR
HER COMING BACK AND I KNOW THAT
SHE'S BEEN HIGHLY ENGAGED AND
SO I JUST WANT TO THANK HER FOR
HER SERVICE TO THE CITY AND FOR
FOR COMING BACK AND HELPING TO
FILL AN IMPORTANT ROLE.
>> THANKS FOR THE DISCUSSION
OF THE CONSENT AGENDA FOR MY
PART BASICALLY EXACTLY WHAT
COUNCIL MEMBER DENHA SAYS.
I WOULD LIKE TO WELCOME MR
ROBERTS TO TO THE CITY.
THE PUBLIC SERVICES AREA IS
OBVIOUSLY IN PLACE WHERE WE
WERE WHERE THE ROAD MEETS THE
RUBBER AND IT'S IT'S GREAT TO
HAVE A LEADER OF HIS CALIBER TO
JOIN US.
I WOULD ALSO LIKE TO ECHO MY
GRATITUDE FOR RMS MCCORMICK'S
SERVICE WHEN YOU AS FOLKS KNOW
I HAVE BEEN INVOLVED HERE AT
CITY COUNCIL SINCE ABOUT 2008
WHEN SUE MCCORMACK WAS IN
SERVING HERE AS THE SERVICE
AREA ADMINISTRATOR WITH AN
APARTMENT IN A THEN PERMANENT
BASES.
AND UPON HEARING OF HER RETURN
I WHOOPED AND HOLLERED IN
DELIGHT AND AND INDEED THAT
THAT ENTHUSIASM WAS BORNE OUT
BY THE NATURE OF HER SERVICE.
SHE HAS DONE GREAT WORK FOR US
BOTH RECENTLY AND AND IN THE
NOW DISTANT PAST.
>> I JUST WANT TO EXPRESS MY
GRATITUDE TO HER FURTHER
DISCUSSION THE CONCEPT
OF AGENDA ON FAVOR POSED THE
CONSENT AGENDA WITH TEN COUNCIL
MEMBERS PRESENT ALL VOTE IN THE
AFFIRMATIVE THAT SATISFIED THE
EIGHT VOTE REQUIREMENT WITH
WITH RESPECT TO SEE A THREE IS
APPROVED THERE ARE NO PUBLIC
HEARINGS TODAY WE HAVE BEFORE
US TO REGULAR SESSION MEETING
MINUTES OF JANUARY SIX.
TWENTY TWENTY FIVE MEMBER
MOTION PLEASE TO APPROVE THESE
MINUTES MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER
WATSON TAKEN BY COUNCILOR
REDISH DISCUSSION ON FAVOR
POSED THE MINUTES ARE APPROVED
SEE ONE IN ORDENES TO AMEND
SECTION ONE THREE TWO 4.5 FIVE
OF CHAPTER FOURTEEN PURCHASING
CONTRACTING AND SELLING
PROCEDURE TITLE ONE OF THE
CODE OF THE CITY THEY ARE
REMOVED BY COUNCIL MEMBER ER
SECOND BY COUIL MEMBER DENHA
DISCUSSION PLEASE SEE ONE
COUNCIL MEMBER ER THANK YOU
THAT CAME UP QUICKLY SO THIS IS
ANOTHER STEP IN THE CONTINUOUS
IMPROVEMENT OF OUR BEST VALUE
PROCUREMENT POLICY.
WE CONTINUE TO LEARN LESSONS
ABOUT THE PROCESS THROUGHOUT
THE LAST CONSTRUCTION SEASON IN
TERMS OF ASPECTS THAT ARE
WORKING AND OTHERS THAT ARE NOT
QUITE ACHIEVING WHAT WE'D HOPED
WITH THE PROCESS AND THOSE
LESSONS ARE REFLECTED IN THESE
CHANGES SPECIFICALLY.
YOU KNOW, FOLKS MIGHT WONDER IF
THEY'RE READING THE DETAILS WHY
WOULD WE ELIMINATE A QUESTION
ABOUT QUALITY CONTROL?
>> THE REASON BEING THE CITY'S
QUALITY CONTROL MEASURES AND
REQUIREMENTS FOR CONSTRUCTION
PROJECTS ARE TENDING TO
GENERALLY BE HIGHER THAN WHAT
BIDDERS ARE COMING UP WITH.
AND SO IT IS KIND OF A MOOT
POINT.
SAME WITH SUSTAINABLE PRODUCTS.
AGAIN, WE THIS WAS PUT IN THE
POLICY WITH THE BEST
OF INTENTIONS.
BUT WHAT WE'RE FINDING OUT IS
THAT THE CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS
ARE DICTATED BY THE CONTRACTS
BY THE CITY AND SO THERE REALLY
ISN'T MUCH ROOM FOR BIDDERS TO
COME UP WITH ALTERNATIVES AND
AND THEN THERE'S SIMPLE CHANGE
RELATED TO BIDDERS
COMMUNICATING THEIR SAFETY
PROGRAM.
>> WE JUST DON'T WANT THE
ENTIRE HUNDRED OF PAGES
OF SAFETY MANUALS IN THE BIDS
ANYMORE.
WE'RE ASKING THAT BIDDERS POST
THEM ON A WEBSITE OR SOMEWHERE
THAT STAFF CAN GO TO AND LOOK
AT AND EVALUATE THEM.
SO STILL INTERESTED IN THAT
INFORMATION, JUST ASKING FOR IT
IN A DIFFERENT MANNER.
>> THE OTHER BIG CHANGES TO THE
SCORING SYSTEM WHICH IS ALSO
ATTACHED TO THE AGENDA ITEM AND
THIS ONE I'M REALLY EXCITED
ABOUT BECAUSE THIS IS FINALLY
GOING TO ALLOW US TO SCORE
BIDDERS ON THINGS WE VALUE LIKE
WHETHER THEY PAY PREVAILING
WAGE ON PROJECTS ALL THE TIME,
NOT JUST CITY PROJECTS, WHETHER
THEY PROVIDE HEALTH INSURANCE
TO THEIR EMPLOYEES, WHETHER
THEY PROVIDE RETIREMENT
BENEFITS AND OTHER FRINGE
BENEFITS TO BE DETERMINED SO
CURRENTLY BIDDERS ARE JUST
GETTING FULL POINTS IF THEY
TELL US THEY DO OR THEY DON'T.
>> EVEN IF THEY DON'T, THEY'RE
STILL GETTING FULL POINTS NOW
WE'RE CHANGING THAT TO SAY IF
YOU DO PROVIDE THAT PREVAILING
WAGE ALL THE TIME YOU GET ONE
POINT IF YOU PROVIDE HEALTH
INSURANCE YOU GET TWO POINTS.
>> IF YOU PROVIDE RETIREMENT
BENEFITS YOU GET TWO POINTS
ETC. AND SO AGAIN, THIS IS A
CHANGE THAT'S GOING TO ALLOW US
TO MORE ACCURATELY SCORE AND
REWARD BIDDERS FOR THE THINGS
THAT WE VALUE AS A CITY.
AND I'M PLEASED THAT STAFF FELT
IT WAS POSSIBLE TO IMPLEMENT
THIS CHANGE AND I'M EXCITED
ABOUT IT.
I OR MY COLLEAGUES WILL SUPPORT
IT.
>> THANK YOU FOR THE DISCUSSION
OR FAVOR OR OPPOSED IT IS
APPROVED DC ONE RESOLUTION TO
AUTHORIZE SETTLEMENT OF THE
CITY IN ARBER V TWO ZERO ONE
NORTH FOUR FOURTH ET AL
WASHTENAW COUNTY COURT CASE
NUMBER TWO FOUR ZERO ZERO ZERO
FOUR FOUR FOUR C.H. MOVE BY
COUNCIL MEMBER THIS SECOND BY
COUNCIL MEMBER OF DENHA
DISCUSSION OF DC ONE ON FAVOR
ALL OPPOSED IT IS APPROVED DC
TWO RESOLUTION TO AUTHORIZE THE
CITY ADMINISTRATOR TO ENGAGE
THE ANN ARBOR DISTRICT LIBRARY
AND DISCUSSIONS REGARDING
POTENTIAL DEVELOPMENT INCLUDING
HOUSING ON A PORTION OF THE
CITY A PORTION OF THE CENTER
OF THE CITY PARCEL KNOWN AS THE
LIBRARY LANE PARKING LOT MOVE
BY COUNCIL MEMBER CORNELL
SECOND I COUNCIL MEMBER IA
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF DC TO
COUNCIL GRENELLE
FIRST I WANT
TO THANK PEOPLE WHO EMAILED AND
SHARED THEIR THOUGHTS AND I
WANTED TO ALSO THANK PEOPLE WHO
CAME OUT TONIGHT OR
PARTICIPATED ONLINE ON THE
PHONE FOR SHARING FEEDBACK.
I WANT TO START BY JUST SAYING
BASED ON SOME OF THE EMAILS
RECEIVED I RECEIVED TODAY, I'M
WORRIED THAT THERE'S SOME
CONFUSION ABOUT WHAT THIS
RESOLUTION ACTUALLY IS.
SOME FEEDBACK DIDN'T SEEM TO
REALIZE THAT THIS ACTUALLY
ACCOMPLISHES WHAT THE AUTHORS
OF THOSE EMAILS WERE SEEKING
WHICH IS OBTAINING MORE
INFORMATION ABOUT THE LIBRARY'S
INTENTIONS FOR ITS DOWNTOWN
BRANCH SO THAT IT CAN BE SHARED
WIDELY, PUBLICLY AS A WAY FOR
RESIDENT ENGAGEMENT AROUND WHAT
COULD BE POSSIBLE COSPONSORING
THIS BECAUSE IT'S IN MY VIEW
ENTIRELY APPROPRIATE FOR MR.
DONEE TO TALK WITH THE
LIBRARY'S LEADERSHIP ABOUT
THEIR PLANS.
I'M REALLY INTERESTED AND
EXCITED ABOUT WHAT ROLE THE
CITY CAN PLAY IN ENSURING THAT
THIS VITAL RESOURCE FOR ALL THE
REASONS THAT WE HEARD TONIGHT
REMAINS DOWNTOWN AND I BELIEVE
THAT THE COMMUNITY DESERVES TO
TO KNOW WHAT THAT MIGHT LOOK
LIKE.
THE RESOLUTION DIRECTS MR. DONY
TO BRING BACK TO COUNCIL AND
THE COMMUNITY THE RESULTS
OF HIS CONVERSATION WITH THE
LIBRARY AND RECOMMENDATIONS TO
CONSIDER AS NEXT STEPS TO I
BELIEVE THAT MANY PEOPLE IN THE
COMMUNITY INCLUDING BASED ON
FEEDBACK THAT I'VE HEARD ARE
INTERESTED TO HEAR WHAT IS
POSSIBLE.
>> I EVEN BELIEVE THAT PEOPLE
WHO SUPPORTED PROPOSAL WOULD BE
INTERESTED TO HEAR WHAT THE
LIBRARY COULD INCORPORATE IN
TERMS OF AN OUTDOOR PLAZA, A
COMMUNITY GATHERING SPACE AS
PART OF THESE PLANS AND I WOULD
BE ESPECIALLY INTERESTED TO
KNOW IF THE LIBRARY WOULD ALSO
COMMIT TO EXPANDING ITS AWARD
WINNING PROGRAMING INTO THAT
SPACE.
IT COULD TRULY TRANSFORM PART
OF DOWNTOWN AND THAT'S EXCITING
AT A PUBLIC INPUT SESSION IN
NOVEMBER, THE LIBRARY PRESENTED
A WIDE RANGING VISION FOR THE
EXPANSION OF THIS DOWNTOWN
BRANCH.
>> IT INCLUDED THE POTENTIAL TO
ADD SPACES FOR NONPROFITS
PERFORMING, PERFORMING AND
VISUAL ARTS SPACE POTENTIAL FOR
COWORKING SPACE HOUSING.
THE CITY NEEDS TO HAVE A SEAT
AT THIS TABLE AND I'M GRATEFUL
THAT MR. DONEE IS GOING TO BE
LEADING THOSE DISCUSSIONS FOR
US.
I BELIEVE THAT THE
COLLABORATION BETWEEN OUR
LIBRARY AND THE CITY PUTS OUR
COMMUNITY IN THE STRONGEST
POSITION FOR ACCOMPLISHING WORK
THAT REFLECTS OUR VALUES WHILE
ALSO MAXIMIZING THE RESOURCES
OF TWO PUBLIC ENTITIES.
>> I CAN'T OVERSTATE HOW
HOPEFUL AND ENTHUSIASTIC I AM
ABOUT THIS WHOLE PROCESS AND
THE POTENTIAL AND I HOPE THAT
MY COLLEAGUES WILL SUPPORT THIS
RESOLUTION.
IT'S BEEN A LONG TIME COMING IN
MY OPINION.
>> COUNCILOR HARRISON, THANK
YOU, MAYOR.
JUST WANTED TO THANK EVERYONE
FOR THEIR FEEDBACK ON THIS
AGENDA ITEM FOR REACHING OUT
THIS EVENING AND SPEAKING AND
ALSO YOUR EMAILS THAT YOU SENT
AS SOMEONE WHO SPENT MY ENTIRE
LIFE IN ANN ARBOR I CAN'T
REMEMBER A TIME WHEN I DIDN'T
HAVE A LIBRARY CARD GROWING UP.
THE LIBRARY WAS MORE THAN A
PLACE FOR BOOKS.
IT WAS WHERE I FOUND
INSPIRATION, EXPLORE NEW IDEAS
AND FELT CONNECTED TO MY
COMMUNITY.
>> WATCHING THE ANIBA DISTRICT
LIBRARY EVOLVE OVER THE YEARS
HAS BEEN INCREDIBLE.
IT'S ALWAYS BEEN A REFLECTION
OF OUR CITY'S VALUES FOR
THINKING ACCESSIBLE AND
COMMITTED TO SERVING EVERYONE
THIS RESOLUTION IS AN
OPPORTUNITY TO EXPAND THAT
LEGACY BY PARTNERING WITH THE
LIBRARY WE CAN ADDRESS ONE
OF OUR COMMUNITIES THE MOST
PRESSING NEEDS CREATING HOUSING
AS WELL AS THE AFFORDABLE
HOUSING.
I CAN'T THINK OF A BETTER USE
FOR THIS SPACE THAN TO MAKE IT
A TRUE CIVIC COMMONS A PLACE
WHERE PEOPLE CAN LIVE, LEARN
AND CONNECT.
WHAT EXCITES ME MOST ABOUT THIS
OPPORTUNITY IS ITS POTENTIAL TO
SHOW HOW INNOVATION AND
COLLABORATION CAN CREATE
SOMETHING GREATER THAN THE SUM
OF ITS PARTS BY ENGAGING THE
LIBRARY, THE CITY, AFFORDABLE
HOUSING DEVELOPERS AND THE
COMMUNITY AND THIS VISION WE
CAN DELIVER A SPACE THAT
DOESN'T JUST SERVE TODAY'S
NEEDS BUT BECOMES A LASTING
SYMBOL OF WHAT ANN ARBOR CAN
ACHIEVE WHEN WE WORK TOGETHER.
I AM HAPPY TO CO-SPONSOR THIS
RESOLUTION WHICH IF IT PASSES
THIS EVENING ALLOWS US TO TAKE
THE FIRST STEP TOWARDS
SOMETHING TRANSFORMATIVE.
I LOOK FORWARD TO SEEING HOW
THIS PARTNERSHIP UNFOLDS INTO
ENSURING THAT WHATEVER COMES
NEXT REFLECTS THE CREATIVITY,
ACCESSIBILITY AND EXCLUSIVITY
THAT DEFINES AND HARBOR.
>> THANK YOU COUNCIL MEMBER IHR
THANK YOU.
MY COLLEAGUES HAVE SPOKEN VERY
ELOQUENTLY ON THIS SO FAR AND
SO I'LL BE BRIEF
.
>> I JUST THOUGHT FIRST OF ALL
THANK YOU TO ALL OF THE FOLKS
WHO CAME OUT TONIGHT TO SPEAK
AND WHO HAVE BEEN EMAILING US
ON BOTH SIDES OF THE ISSUE.
I WOULD SAY I JUST WANT TO
STRESS MY PERSPECTIVE THAT
DISCUSSIONS ON THIS ARE VERY
PRELIMINARY AND EVEN THOUGH
IT'S PRELIMINARY I AM EXCITED
TO SEE WHERE IT CAN LEAD.
THIS HAS BEEN A VASTLY
UNDERUTILIZED BASE IN OUR
DOWNTOWN AS LONG AS I'VE LIVED
HERE AND UNFORTUNE IT HAS BEEN
JUST AT THE CENTER OF THIS PULL
AND PUSH BETWEEN BETWEEN FOLKS
WITH COMPETING VIEWS AND I
REALLY THINK THAT THIS PRESENTS
AN OPPORTUNITY FOR A WIN WIN
FOR EVERYONE.
YOU KNOW, THERE ARE FOLKS WHO
REALLY WANT HOUSING THERE.
WE REALLY NEED HOUSING.
WE HAVE A CRISIS.
WE DON'T HAVE ENOUGH HOUSING
FOR PEOPLE WHO LIVE DOWNTOWN.
THE LIBRARY NEEDS A NEW BRANCH.
>> WE WANT IT TO TO REMAIN
WHERE IT IS BECAUSE IT IT'S THE
CENTER.
IT'S THE DOWNTOWN LIBRARY.
IT'S THE CENTER OF OF A OF A
OF A PUBLIC SQUARE DOWN THERE
ESSENTIALLY AND WE NEED MORE
AND WE DO PUBLIC SPACES AS AS
PART OF PLACEMAKING TO TO
ATTRACT INVESTMENT TO ATTRACT
NEW HOUSING, TO ATTRACT PEOPLE
TO THE COMMERCIAL USERS IN THE
AREA.
AND SO I SAID WINWIN BUT REALLY
IT'S A WIN WIN WIN IF IT COULD
COME TO FRUITION AND I'M
EXCITED TO SEE MR. DONEE ENTER
INTO THOSE DISCUSSIONS AND COME
BACK TO US WITH WITH IDEAS AND
THOSE IDEAS THEN WILL BE
PRESENTED TO THE COMMUNITY AND
WE'LL BE ABLE TO TALK ABOUT
THEM.
>> SO THANK YOU VERY MUCH
COUNCIL MEMBER BRAKE'S YEAH
THANK YOU.
>> AND I TOO WOULD LIKE TO
THANK THOSE WHO HAVE ENGAGED
WITH US OVER EMAIL AND PERSON
ON THE PHONE TO TALK ABOUT THIS
ISSUE.
>> I'M ALSO A LITTLE SURPRISED
AROUND SORT OF THE SOME OF THE
CONCERNS HAVE BEEN RAISED TO
DATE AS COUNCIL MEMBER CORNELL
MENTIONED, THIS IS A RESOLUTION
TO AUTHORIZE A CONVERSATION TO
BRING MORE INFORMATION BACK TO
US THIS COUNCIL SO THAT WE CAN
HAVE INFORMED CONVERSATION, YOU
KNOW, AN INFORMED DISCUSSION
AROUND THIS BOTH AS A COMMUNITY
AND AS A COUNCIL.
>> I'M ALSO SURPRISED AROUND
SORT OF THE THE SENTIMENT THAT
THIS IS A REFERENDUM ON
DEMOCRACY AND WHETHER OR NOT WE
SUPPORT THE PEOPLE'S VOTE
OF TWENTY EIGHTEEN THIS THIS IS
THIS IS ENGAGING IN A
CONVERSATION AND GETTING MORE
INFORMATION TO JUST GO BACK TO
WHAT OUR CITY CHARTER SAYS AND
PROPORTION IT'S TO THE SECTION
AUTHORIZE THIS TO BE DEVELOPED
AS THIS ENTIRE BLOCK IN
PERPETUITY DEVELOPED AS AN
URBAN CENTRAL PARK AND CIVIC
CENTER COMMONS.
>> SO WHAT IS A CIVIC COMMONS
CIVIC COMMONS OUR NETWORKS
OF PUBLIC SPACES, THE PARKS,
POOLS, RECREATION CENTERS AND
LIBRARIES THAT WE SHARE AS A
COMMUNITY AND WE'RE NEIGHBORS
OF ALL BACKGROUNDS CAN MEET AND
CONNECT.
THIS IS INHERENTLY SOMETHING IT
IS US EXPLORING AN OPPORTUNITY
TO BE ABLE TO ACT AND DELIVER
ON WHAT VOTERS CALLED FOR IN
TWENTY EIGHTEEN AND TO
UNDERSTAND WHAT ANOTHER
COMMUNITY PARTNER MIGHT BE ABLE
TO HELP US BE ABLE TO
FACILITATE AND BRING THAT
FORWARD.
SO I'M EXCITED TO SEE WHAT
COMES OUT OF THESE
CONVERSATIONS.
I THINK THERE'S A LOT TO LEARN
BUT I DON'T THINK THAT THIS IS
A TIME FOR US TO DO ANYTHING
BUT TO CELEBRATE THE GOOD WORK
THAT'S HAPPENING AT THE LOCAL
LEVEL.
THERE'S A LOT TO BE CONCERNED
ABOUT RIGHT NOW IN TERMS
OF DEMOCRACY.
>> THIS IS THIS IS NOT ONE
OF THOSE ISSUES.
>> COUNCILMAN BRACKMAN, THANK
YOU.
I WELCOME THE OPPORTUNITY FOR
DISCUSSIONS BETWEEN OUR CITY
ADMINISTRATOR AND THE LIBRARY
LEADERSHIP, WHICH IS WHY I
CO-SPONSORED THIS RESOLUTION.
I THINK OUR COMMUNITY HAS MADE
IT CLEAR THAT THIS DOWNTOWN
PARCEL DESERVES TO BE SOMETHING
BETTER THAN A SURFACE PARKING
LOT WHICH HAS BEEN ITS DEFAULT
STATE FOR FAR TOO LONG.
AND ON THAT I THINK THAT
EVERYONE CAN AGREE HAVING
SERVED ON THE LIBRARY BOARD I
GUESS NO, I'M THE ONLY COUNCIL
MEMBER THAT CAN SAY THAT I CAN
SPEAK FIRSTHAND TO ITS
EXCELLENCE.
THIS IS A NATIONALLY ACCLAIMED
INSTITUTION THAT HAS EARNED
MULTIPLE AWARDS AND MORE
IMPORTANTLY THE DEEP TRUST
OF OUR COMMUNITY THROUGH ITS
MANY CONSISTENTLY INNOVATIVE
APPROACHES TO PUBLIC SERVICE
AND PUBLIC SPACE.
SO THIS OPPORTUNITY TO ME
REPRESENTS IN MY VIEW OUR BEST
CURRENT CHANCE TO CREATE A
DYNAMIC COMMUNITY CENTERED
SPACE IN THE HEART OF DOWNTOWN
.
YOU KNOW, OBVIOUSLY AS SEVERAL
OF MY COLLEAGUES HAVE ALREADY
STATED, THIS IS EARLY
DISCUSSIONS AND SOMEONE RAISED
THE POINT THAT WE CAN'T MAKE A
CHANGE TO THE CITY CHARTER
WITHOUT A VOTE.
YES, THAT'S TRUE.
THERE'S NOTHING IN THIS
RESOLUTION TO INITIATE THIS
DISCUSSION THAT CIRCUMVENTS
THAT REQUIREMENT AND I LOOK
FORWARD TO CITY COUNCIL AND THE
PUBLIC SEEING WHAT
POSSIBILITIES EMERGE FROM THESE
CONVERSATIONS.
>> COUNCIL MEMBER DENHA THANK
YOU MAYOR.
I TOO AM GOING TO SUPPORT THIS
TONIGHT AND I'M GRATEFUL TO THE
SPONSORS FOR BRINGING IT
FORWARD.
YOU KNOW, I THINK IT IS
IMPORTANT TO I THINK MY MY
COLLEAGUES HAVE ON THIS ALREADY
BUT IMPORTANT TO UNDERSCORE
THAT THIS RESOLUTION DOES NOT
COMMIT THE CITY TO ANY
PARTICULAR OUTCOME IN THIS
SPACE.
THIS IS A SIMPLE RESOLUTION
AUTHORIZING THE CITY
ADMINISTRATOR TO ENGAGE IN
DISCUSSIONS WITH A COMMUNITY
PARTNER ABOUT A A PARKING LOT
IN OUR DOWNTOWN THAT HAS REALLY
BEEN UNDERUTILIZED AND AND I
THINK HAS BEEN A SOURCE
OF FRUSTRATION BOTH FOR
PROPONENTS AND OPPONENTS OF THE
TWENTY EIGHTEEN CHARTER
AMENDMENT.
>> YOU KNOW, I THINK THERE WERE
FOLKS WHO ENVISIONED THIS
VIBRANT PARK TO TAKE PLACE OF A
PARKING SPOT.
THERE WERE OTHERS WHO
ENVISIONED HOUSING AT THIS
SPACE AND AS WAS NOTED IN BOTH
IN PUBLIC COMMENT AND I THINK
AT THE TABLE SO FAR WE HAVEN'T
SEEN THE PRIVATE FUNDING
DEVELOP TO REALLY PUT THAT PLAN
INTO ACTION AND AS A RESULT
WE'VE HEARD A LOT
OF FRUSTRATION FROM FOLKS WHO
HAVE BEEN ADVOCATES OF THIS
SPACE FOR A LACK OF ACTION TO
DEVELOP THIS INTO A CIVIC
COMMONS.
AND I THINK ONE OF THE THINGS
THAT I'M EXCITED ABOUT IS THIS
COULD POTENTIALLY MOVE US IN
THAT DIRECTION.
>> I'M A LITTLE SURPRISED TO
HEAR OPPOSITION AT THIS STAGE
SIMPLY BECAUSE IT'S QUITE
POSSIBLE THAT THE PLAN THAT
COMES OUT OF THESE DISCUSSIONS
COULD RESULT IN EXACTLY WHAT
PROPONENTS OF THE CHARTER
AMENDMENT WERE ASKING FOR.
BUT THAT BEING THE CASE, I
THINK AS COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGGS
POINTED OUT, THE SUGGESTION
THAT THIS IN SOME WAY
DISREGARDS THE VOTE OF THE
PEOPLE IN TWENTY EIGHTEEN IS
SIMPLY UNFOUNDED.
AS A MATTER OF FACT, I WOULD
SAY THE RESOLUTION IN FACT
RECOGNIZES IN ITS PLAIN TEXT
THAT DEPENDING ON THE OUTCOME
OF THESE CONVERSATIONS IT COULD
REQUIRE ANOTHER VOTE OF THE
PUBLIC ULTIMATELY PROVIDING
VOTERS WITH THE FINAL SAY ON
WHAT WOULD HAPPEN IN THIS SPACE
.
>> BUT AS AS OTHERS HAVE NOTED,
THIS IS INCREDIBLY PRELIMINARY.
WE DON'T KNOW WHAT WILL COME
FROM THESE CONVERSATIONS BUT I
THINK HAVING A DISCUSSION
EMPOWERING OUR ADMINISTRATOR IN
THE CITY TO HAVE THIS
DISCUSSION THAT COULD MOVE US
FORWARD IN PARTNERSHIP WITH A
WORLD CLASS LIBRARY TO ACTIVATE
THE SPACE TO CREATE AN OUTCOME
THAT COULD TRULY ACHIEVE THE
GOALS OF A COMMUNITY GATHERING
SPACE IN OUR DOWNTOWN NEAR
LIBERTY PLAZA WHICH HAS BEEN
MORE ACTIVATED AND ENGAGING
THANKS TO THE DEDICATION OF OUR
CITY STAFF IS A REALLY EXCITING
OPPORTUNITY.
AND SO I THINK IT'S OUR
OBLIGATION TO EXPLORE THAT
BECAUSE THE REALITY IS THE
STATUS QUO ISN'T WORKING AND SO
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY TO
PROVIDE A VISION FOR THE FUTURE
OR THE DISCUSSION ON THE ROOF
OF THE THE UNDERGROUND PARKING
STRUCTURE ON FIFTH HAS BEEN A
DEAD ZONE FOR DECADES.
>> WE NEED ACTIVITY IN OUR
DOWNTOWN.
>> WE NEED HOUSING FOR PEOPLE
WHO WORK IN ANN ARBOR.
>> WE NEED A NEW LIBRARY TO
BETTER SERVE THE PUBLIC AND WE
NEED PROGRAMABLE OPEN SPACE.
I'M HOPEFUL THAT BY WORKING
WITH THE LIBRARY THAT WE CAN
ACCOMPLISH THESE GOALS WITHOUT
RAISING TAXES IN A WAY THAT
BENEFITS THE LIBRARY.
THE MUNICIPAL ORGANIZATION
INDEED EVERYONE IN THE ARABIC
COMMUNITY I'M DELIGHTED THAT
THE ADMINISTRATOR AND THE
LIBRARY HAVE HAD EXPLODED
EXPLORATORY CONVERSATION ABOUT
HOW WE CAN USE THE LIBRARY LANE
PARKING LOT AND THE LIBRARY
PARCEL TO MEET THESE GOALS.
>> I LOOK FORWARD TO LEARNING
MORE AND THAT IS INDEED THE
PURPOSE OF THIS RESOLUTION TO
SEE WHAT WHAT POSSIBILITIES WE
CAN WE CAN ENVISION AND TO
HOPEFULLY CHART A WAY TO GET US
THERE FOR THE DISCUSSION ON
FAVOR OR OPPOSED IT IS APPROVED
DC ONE RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING
PUBLICATION OF NOTICE OF INTENT
TO ISSUE CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT
BONDS TO FUND THE REPLACEMENT
OF FIRE STATION NUMBER FOUR NOT
TO EXCEED TWELVE MILLION
DOLLARS MOVE BY KAZMIR IRS
SECOND BY COUNCIL MEMBER
ACKMANN DISCUSSION OF DC ONE
COUNCIL BRITISH NOT SO MUCH
DISCUSSION AS JUST A KIND
OF HAPPY HURRAY THIS IS
EXCITING.
>> IT WOULD BE THE CITY'S FIRST
CARBON NEUTRAL PUBLIC FACILITY
AND THIS WOULD BE FIRE STATION
NUMBER FOUR ON YOUR OWN PARKWAY
HEATED AND COOLED BY GEOTHERMAL
ENERGY WHICH WOULD BE
WONDERFUL.
IT'S ANOTHER PROOF OF CONCEPT
AND IT WHEN CHIEF KENNEDY CAME
IN PRESENTED THIS PLAN TO THE
PLANNING COMMISSION, IT WAS SO
EXCITING.
BUT WHAT HE HAD TO SAY TO
DAMPEN OUR EXCITEMENT WAS
THERE'S NO MONEY AND THIS IS A
WAY OF GETTING MONEY.
>> SO THANK YOU FOR THE
DISCUSSION.
I'LL JUST SAY TO THAT I'M I'M
VERY EXCITED ABOUT THIS MOVING
FORWARD IN THIS THIS ASPECT
OF THE PROJECT MOVING FORWARD.
>> FOLKS
IN THE FIRE SERVICE
COME TO WORK EVERY DAY AND WELL
THEY DON'T COME TO WORK EVERY
DAY.
>> THEY COME TO WORK WHEN THEIR
SHIFT WHEN THEIR SHIFT COMES
AND WHEN THEY DO COME TO WORK
THEY WORK EXTREMELY HARD FOR
LONG PERIODS OF TIME TO ENSURE
THAT EVERYONE IN THE ENTIRE
COMMUNITY IS SAFE.
THEIR FIRE STATIONS ARE
CRITICAL PIECES OF THAT THAT
WORKPLACE INFRASTRUCTURE AND
OUR FIRE STATIONS ARE MANY
OF THEM ENDING OR HAVE IN THEIR
REARVIEW THEY'RE THEIR USEFUL
LIFE.
>> THIS THIS FIRE STATION IS NO
EXCEPTION.
>> IT IS YOU KNOW, NOT THE
STATION WE WANT OUR
FIREFIGHTERS TO TO BE BASED AND
THE PROSPECT OF A NEW FIRE
STATION THAT MEETS THEIR NEEDS
AND THAT ACCOMPLISHES HELPS US
MOVE TOWARDS OUR TWO ZERO GOALS
IS IS JUST SO I'M VERY EXCITED
ABOUT THIS MOVING FORWARD AND
I'M GRATEFUL FOR THE GREAT AND
GOOD WORK OF STAFF UP AND DOWN
THE LINE TO GET US HERE FURTHER
DISCUSSION ROLL CALL VOTE
PLEASE.
>> STARTING WITH COUNCIL MEMBER
HARRISON COUNCIL MEMBER
HARRISON YES.
CUSTOMER WATSON YES.
COUNCILOR MALIK YES.
COUNCILOR DENHA YES.
CUSTOMER OUTSIDE ONE ABSENT
MAYOR TAYLOR YES.
CUSTOMER YES CUSTOMER AKMAN
YES.
CUSTOMER BRIGS YES.
CUSTOMER CORNEAU YES.
>> CUSTOMER DISH YES MOTION
CARRY DO YOU HAVE THE PLEASURE
OF A CLOSED SESSION TODAY?
>> NO THANK YOU MAYOR.
WE HAVE BEFORE THE CLERKS
REPORT OF COMMUNICATIONS
PETITIONS AND REFERRALS TO THE
MOTION PLEASE TO APPROVE THE
CLASS MOVE BY COUNCILOR BRIGGS
SECONDED BY COUNCILOR KERNELL
DISCUSSION OF THE SUPPORT OR
FAVOR POSED THE CLERKS REPORT
IS APPROVED AND THE OTHER
COMMUNICATIONS TODAY FROM OUR
CITY ATTORNEY.
>> NO THANK YOU MAYOR.
IN THE ABSENCE OF PUBLIC
COMMENT, OVERFLOW MAY HAVE A
MOTION TO ADJOURN PLEASE MOVE
BY COUNCILOR BRITISH SECRETARY
COUNCILOR HARRISON DISCUSSION
ON FAVOR POSED.
>> WE'RE ADJOURNED